



Cisco CCENT/CCNA Interconnecting Cisco Networking Devices Part 1 (ICND1) Training | John Academy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HQPKVJWNZTI&list=PL-KkY0d-iFkw0SoCl4s1G4Q06G72m6Cv-&index=191



====================

hi there my name is Ken Mayer and I'm
going to be your instructor for this
course over the last thirty plus years I
have worked in a variety of different
fields in the world of IT of course that
does include the routing the switching
in the security world both for small
enterprises large enterprises fortune
100 companies and over the last 15 years
have had the opportunity as a consultant
or as a contractor to be able to work
with most of the larger service
providers around the world now I'm
hoping that I'll be able to take all of
that experience both in the real world
and in the instructional capability and
be able to give you the information you
need to be successful at working with
Cisco's routers and switches so let's
first talk about exploring the functions
of networking that means of course to
understand the basics about our
communications when we talk about a
network what we're talking about is a
way for different endpoints to be able
to communicate with each other when I
talk about an endpoint I'm talking about
a device like a laptop like a computer
sitting on your desk that is not going
to take and receive transmissions and
then send those transmissions out to a
different device right it's the
beginning of a conversation or it's the
end of a conversation we call that the
endpoint now that endpoint can be
anywhere it could be at a home office a
small office it could be a user whose
mobile in today's world it could be part
of what we call BYOD bring your own
device your smart phones your tablet's
all are designed as endpoints now what
we need is to find a way to be able to
help facilitate that communications from
one endpoint to another whether it's at
a branch office a headquarter or main
office and so that's what we call a
network a network is a the ability for
these endpoints to be able to talk to
each other by the way some of the other
endpoints that I haven't mentioned are
obviously things like your servers your
file servers your print servers your
email servers we just call them a server
because they are designed to share
resources from multiple endpoints or I
guess we'll all just call workstations
so what we're going to do is find a way
to be able to make that
Communications go back and forth whether
it's from the use of radio frequencies
like a wireless network whether it's the
use of copper cables sending electrons
or fiber cables sending photons or light
down that wire we're gonna look at the
ways in which we can make that
connection to help facilitate the
communications to get the message from
the source to its destination so in
reality as I said before we're looking
at the variety of endpoints that we want
to have communications work with and
endpoints don't mean again that it's the
end of the communication it means they
could start or end the communication but
that they're not helping facilitate the
communications between each other in
other words if my computer wanted to
have this user send a print document
they would send it through a network
device that would look at the address
that it wants to be communicated and
width and then help facilitate that
communication to the device so that if
the print job could work so that's where
we're looking at the interconnection
right here from the switch layer on up
and we'll break this down a little bit
to talk about these different layers but
typically we talk about this as the
access layer because that the access
layer what we're doing is we're making
sure that we are able to access the
endpoints and then of course the larger
our network grows the more that we need
to have the ability to do what we call
scaling of communications we may start
using routers now I'll explain all about
the reason why you would use a router
over a switch as we get into the
discussion of broadcast domains and so
many other things but we often call that
the distribution layer and we again use
it to help facilitate the communications
from one place to another a router can
help us within a local office a router
can help us in being able to get out to
the world of the Internet as well so as
long as these symbols make sense to you
and we'll keep showing these as parts of
our diagrams then I think you'll do OK
at being able to understand or hopefully
interpret the information that I'm
trying to share with you
again as we're trying to interpret these
diagrams it's important to remember that
whenever you see a PC a server or some
other end point that it's generally
going to have an Ethernet connection
remember the straight lines where
Ethernet cables connecting to us a
network device most often we're
connecting to a switch at the local
level again the switch with the square
with the arrows moving out and as we're
looking at these diagrams you're seeing
the port numbers and the type of ports
that they are that the devices are
connecting to for example F a generally
stands for fast ethernet and when we get
into the speeds of Ethernet you'll see
that that's generally speed that we
always measure in megabits or actually
in bits per second but generally
megabits per second and fast ethernet is
designed to be 100 megabits per second
so this is port 0 5.07 port 0 11 now we
have another indicator here for a
different type of interface which is one
we would call a gigabit gigabit is again
a factor of 10 times faster than fast
ethernet and so gigabit would generally
be listed as one gigabit per second
again we're talking about the types of
interfaces that were connecting to and
that's what it's showing us in the
diagram now when we look at moving
through layer 3 we haven't got to the
OSI model yet but layer 3 deals with IP
addresses so far everything over here
can deal with a layer 2 address that we
call a MAC address and I promise we're
going to get in more discussions about
that but at layer 3 we do need an IP
address so generally speaking you're
going to see the network address the
network address will generally end with
a 0 but we have to still talk about the
subnet mask or variable length subnet
masking soon and then specifically we
have the host address that dot 1 means
that it would actually replace that 0
and that would be the specific address
of that port that is connecting on the
switch a dot 2 to replace that 0
the address on the router and again that
is a gigabit connection and the ports
again are designed to just show you
which port numbers they are basically
the port number is the last indicator
the first indicator
generally is for a multi chassis or
multi designed chassis having multiple
switches in one box another and we'll
talk more about that in other words if I
had a very large switch I may have
several of these line cards and each
line card could have multiple ports and
so the first number is telling me which
line cards starting with one going or
zero going through one two and three and
that would be that first zero that
you're seeing here and then on that line
card which port number we're talking
about starting with port zero port one
etc and then some communications that we
use may use some other medium besides
Ethernet and so this is an example of a
serial interface serial is still about
communicating traffic it's just using a
different protocol and a different type
of cable for a variety of different
reasons to be able to make the
communications now when we are designing
a network you really want to make sure
that you understand how user
applications can affect your designs for
example we have a group of things we may
call a batch application batch
applications are generally applications
that might require a lot of bandwidth
bandwidth or speed is about how much
information I can send down a cable at
any one time
and even though they require a lot of
bandwidth they don't necessarily worry
about how long it takes for the data to
transfer as long as the data does
transfer in other words I could start
some of these applications like a file
transfer FTP the File Transfer Protocol
or TFTP the trivial File Transfer
Protocol or maybe it's a database doing
an inventory update but I'm sending a
large amount of information and it may
be okay if some of that transfer is
interrupted by other traffic coming
through because it's not important that
it gets there in a
continuously same speed type of fashion
now these generally have no direct human
interaction we start the programs they
start sending out their information and
then they finish and report to us when
they're done now there may be some
interactive applications where the time
it takes to get that information could
be important
it could be somebody hitting a webpage
trying to get information from our
database about what items we have in
inventory so in that case we have that
human to machine interaction somebody
clicked on that request we're expecting
to see the results come back and we
don't want to wait a lot of time to be
able to do that where we actually worry
about how long it takes for other people
waiting for the response and response
time although important not quite so
critical that it can't have a couple of
delays in their real-time applications
like voice over IP or video streaming we
do care about because if we're making a
phone call over our network and we have
a lot of delay it'll suddenly sound like
we're on a CB radio instead of actually
on a phone or if there's a problem with
the transfer of video and we're starting
to see delays and skips making the video
experience very bad or having a problem
with the video and the voice coming
together at the right time making your
video look like a badly dubbed movie
then that causes a lot of problems that
is usually a human to human interaction
doing voice or video phone calls and so
it's very important that we don't have
any delays and so all of these are
considerations you have to come through
when making the design of your network
so we're going to talk about the
characteristics of a network the next
couple of our slides are going to talk
about the logical and physical topology
but basically the topology is how do we
connect one PC to another PC or to a
printer or something else and that means
there has to be some sort of a wire some
sort of a device that can help make what
we call a forwarding decision because
there may be more than one destination
and we need to make sure we get our
traffic to the right destination so that
we'll look at that topology information
in just a little bit this by the way is
my drawing of a switch I just didn't put
all the extra arrows I guess I could
therefore you there we go so one of the
things we do look at a network is speed
speed is sometimes called bandwidth it's
about how much data can I send over this
physical cable there's also the use of
cost cost is also important because
we'll talk about a variety of speeds but
the faster you want the speed of not
only the traffic going over the cable
but the speed in which the device that
you use a switch or router can help you
in forwarding traffic can also become
more expensive
generally speaking we also look at the
cost of how many devices can we connect
with this switch or router security is
always going to be an issue security is
about making sure there's not some
hacker out here that might be a part of
your network that's trying to make a
connection and steal communications or
break into other people's devices or
even change the way in which your
traffic moves across your network so we
are going to talk about some of those
issues as well security not only for the
people who are trying to happily use the
network but also security about the
device itself that their inter
connecting through availability is our
discussion of what we sometimes call the
mean time between failure so what's the
odds of a cable breaking what would that
do to us what if the entire switch or
router failed how would that affect
communications do we have a plan for
having alternate paths scalability is
when we decide to increase the size of
our network scalability would be the
discussion of should I add another
switch so I can add a few more endpoint
devices into my network and what would
that do to the bandwidth utilization or
the amount of traffic that exists on
there as well as reliability reliability
still comes back to kind of like
availability letting us get a good
understanding of can we suffer a single
point of failure in other words if one
cable went down again would we have as
good of a network the other part of
reliability is what happens when I start
introducing voice-over-ip somebody
having a telephone which by the way I
draw my telephones like the old dial
telephones with a headset on the top and
how would that affect my communications
in my network if I don't have either the
availability or the reliability of being
able to avoid congestion one of our
earliest topologies was what we call the
bus topology each of these little spots
actually represent an end point
basically a computer laptop or something
like that and what a bus topology was
known for was that if any message was
sent by a computer it was just a
physical cable kind of like if you've
ever plugged a power strip into a wall
instead of having one electrical outlet
then you have six electrical outlets
everybody gets to share that energy
being sent through and so a bus would
basically send your message out to
everyone so everybody got to hear it if
you go back long enough in time we often
call that a party line or if you have
more than one actual landline in your
house if you actually have phones that
are landlines not cellular then that was
generally a bus topology as well
everybody got to hear your conversations
so think of it as a bus line then right
we came in there it was like a bus route
you hit all of the stops the star
topology was a way of connecting
multiple devices and I'm not quite so
sure I like this little circle being in
the middle because generally we had it
like a switch even a hub in the older
days that were in the center of this but
all the devices would connect to ports
in this in this switch and so you coming
gave you the impression that everything
radiated out from the central part kind
of where the star topology came from
depending on the actual device if it was
a switch and we'll talk about these
differences if a communication went in
that device would only send it out to
the recipient and not repeat that
information for everybody that's on
there a mesh topology is where I am not
connected to any one central device but
whether we have basically let's say
maybe a switch or
that has more than one connection to be
able to send traffic so that if any one
interface goes down then I still have
another way of being able to send my
traffic now the Internet is it a great
example of a mesh topology
all of the service providers talk to
each other the service providers have
their customers you and I and they
facilitate the ability for you and I to
talk to customers in their network or to
send our traffic to another service
provider so we can talk to their
customers and so when we look at service
providers we often think of them as
little clouds and so again we have all
of these little clouds talking to each
other now I'm not going to try to
promote any one service provider but you
know who you use for your own internet
at home they are a service provider and
the idea of the mesh is that we make
sure there's not just one way to get
from where we are to where we want to go
it gives us a little bit of fault
tolerance
so those are the three primary there is
another one that often is talked about
it's called a hybrid a hybrid is
sometimes a combination of connecting
maybe a bus to a star so you have both
types of topologies set up for you one
of the most important parts about
topologies is what I just talked about
was a physical topology how the actual
cables were laid out a logical topology
talks about the paths the signals used
to travel from one point of a network to
another and so I want to kind of talk a
little bit about that and go back in a
bit of time for example a switch is
designed to be a star topology
physically and logically but before we
use switches we used a device called a
hub and for many of you who are new to
this industry a hub and a switch might
look very similar to you in that it's a
a single box with multiple ports and our
goal was to connect our pcs to each of
these ports now physically this hub
would look like a star write it all
radiates out from a center device but
actually inside the way in which they
were electrically connected was a
so that if any transmission went into
the switch or hub excuse me let me put
hub here just so I keep remembering it
would exit every single port in that
device so logically it operated like a
bus physically it looked like a star so
what we are interested in is both the
physical layout physical topology and
the logical how the paths are used for
the signals that are being sent in and
how they are forwarded and how they
travel basically from one point of the
network to another well the goal of this
lesson was to talk about how a network
is basically a connection of different
devices that are designed to communicate
with each other what we called endpoints
there were four major categories of the
physical components in a computer
network those were the endpoints that I
called the computers the way in which
they were interconnected with the
physical cables the switches and the
routers now of course we can get into
detail about any of the ways in which
switches and routers work specifically
but we're just looking at the diagrams
we talked about the icons that are going
to be used to represent these different
components of the network and we also
talked about some of the types of
applications we want to be able to plan
for whether they are a batch
applications interactive or real-time
like voice over IP or video we looked at
the way in which we describe networks
both physically and logically as far as
the way in which they are designed
that's what we call the topology now
within that of course we also needed to
talk about some of the other ideas
between speed cost security availability
scalability and reliability now remember
a physical topology is the way in which
the wiring is laid out a logical
topology was about the paths that the
traffic took
[Music]

