0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description in this lab we are going to
configure static routing to allow pc1 &
pc2 to communicate with each other
static routing as opposed to dynamic
routing involves manually configuring
routes to networks that you want to
reach as a network grows it quickly
becomes unfeasible to manually configure
both primary and backup routes to each
destination network however for small
networks like this example here it is no
problem even in large networks you will
often want to use static routes in
combination with dynamic routing
protocols like ERG RP and OSPF which we
will practice in future labs try to
complete the lab yourself first then
continue watching if you have trouble or
watch the video after to check your
solution if you haven't learned the
required commands to complete this lab
yet in your studies feel free to watch
this video to learn them note that no
static routes have been pre-configured
in this lab I have only configured the
default gateways of pc1 & pc2 being the
g0 one interfaces of their respective
routers step one is to configure the G
zero zero and G zero one interfaces of
r1 and r2 according to the network
diagram and enable the interfaces there
are three subnets in this network
192.168.1.0 / 24 which includes pc 1
switch 1 and r ones g0 one interface
also 1000 / 24 which includes the G 0 0
interfaces of r1 and r2 also
192.168.20.10
Artoo's G 0 1 interface let's configure
r1 first
enable coffee tea interface g00 IP
address 1001 255.255.255.0 no shut down
okay so that's our ones g00 interface
which is connected to our two now let's
do the G zero one interface interface G
zero 1 IP address 192.168.1.1
255.255.255.0 no shutdown now let's
configure our twos interfaces enable con
40 interface G 0 0 IP address 1000 to
255.255.255.0 no shutdown interface G 0
1 IP address 192.168.1.1 5 5 0 no
shutdown that's all for step 1
step two is to ping from pc1 to our ones
g0 one interface then progressively ping
toward PC two and see which pings
succeed and which fail let's try that
first our ones g0 one interface ping
192.168.1.1 it works
next our ones G 0 0 interface ping 1001
it works too
now let's try our two SG 0 0 interface
ping 1000 2
this pink fails I won't bother pinging
beyond here those things will fail as
well why is that well for a pin to
succeed
you need to weigh connectivity PC one
needs to be able to reach the
destination and the destination needs to
know how to reach PC one to send the
reply to the ping the first two pings we
send to satisfy both requirements thus
they worked PC one and our ones G zero
one interface are part of the same
network thus they can reach each other
PC one isn't part of the same network as
our ones G zero zero interface but it
sends the packet to its default gateway
which I pre-configured as our ones G
zero one interface then our one of
course knows the destination because
it's one of its other interfaces it can
then send the ping back to PC one which
is again directly connected to the same
network as its G zero one interface
that's why the first two pings worked
now why did the third ping fail let's
think about the path the ping takes PC
one sends the ping to its default
gateway our ones G zero one interface
the destination is 1000 to which our one
knows the way to because it's part of
the same network as its G zero zero
interface the 1000 / 24 network so it
sends the ping out of its G zero zero
interface toward our two now the ping
reaches our two however our two doesn't
know how to send the reply back to PC
one hour two has no route back to the
192.168.1.0 / 24 network because we
haven't configured any reps yet and it's
not a directly connected network so
that's why the ping fails I'll go on are
too quickly to check exit show IP ripped
as you can see the 192.168.1.0 network
is not present
now let's move on to step three
basically we are going to do the same
thing but from PC to can you guess which
pings will work let's check on PC to
first ping 192.168.1 r2 is g0 one
interface it works next ping 1000 - R -
s G zero zero interface it works also
now
ping 1000 won are ones G zero zero
interface it fails this is for the same
reason as before PC - sends the ping to
r2 which then sends it to r1 but r1
doesn't have a route back to PC - subnet
in its routing table so the ping ends
there
step four is to configure static routes
on r1 and r2 to allow PC one to reach PC
two and vice versa
we should also make sure we configure
the route to the subnets meaning
192.168.1.0 / 24 and 192.168 2.0 to the
other PC meaning 192.168.1.1 / 32 and
192.168 - 12 / 32 in this very small
Network we only have to create one
static route on each router on r1 we
need a route to 192.168.20.10 / 24 okay
let's do that on r1 first exit now we
create a static route with the command
IP route now I'll use the question mark
to show what comes next
first is the destination prefix in this
case it's 192.168 200 micro gain
destination prefix mask it's slash 24 so
that equals 255 255 255 0 question mark
one more time now we have a list of
options but really there are just two
the option at the top of the list
forwarding routers address means the
next hop address in the route make sure
this is an address the router knows how
to get to if the router can't reach the
next hop address it obviously can't
reach the destination if we choose this
option the next hop address will be r2
SG 0 0 interface 1000 to the other
options are to specify an interface
meaning the exit interface we will send
the packets out of on the way to the
destination if we choose this option we
will use gigabit gigabit ethernet 0 0
let's go with the first option of the
next hop IP address
1000 - okay
that's it now let's check the routing
table do show IP route here with an S
indicating static we see our route to
the 192.168.0
to the next hop address since we're
looking at the table anyway
notice these other routes have C or L
next to them C refers to a connected
network in this case that 10000 / 24
network and 192.168.1.2 for network l
refers to a local address on the router
itself 1000 won and 192.168.1.1 the IP
addresses of the G 0 0 and G 0 1
interfaces ok now let's configure the
route on our two high ropes 192.168.1.0
255.255.255.0 and now let's configure
the exit interface instead of the next
hop address just to try it out G 0 0 ok
now we should be able to ping from pc1
to pc2 let's go on pc 1 and try it out
ping 192.168.20.10
there we go the ping worked that's all
for this lab thank you for watching I
hope this lab and video have been
helpful for you please subscribe for
future labs like this which will be
released weekly if you have requests for
any specific labs let me know in the
comment section if you want to support
my channel please consider contributing
to my patreon patreon comm / Jeremy's IT
lab I accept Bitcoin and aetherium
donations via the addresses in the
description I am also a brave verified
publisher and accept bat or basic
attention token donations in the brave
browser