0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description this lab will be the last of
our labs focused on static routing in
this lab we will configure a backup
static route known as a floating static
route on our one all routers are
pre-configured with the routing protocol
our IP pronounced trip we haven't done
any labs on routing protocols yet but
rip configuration will be coming soon we
will configure our one with a floating
static route so that in the event that
it's s30 interface fails it will use the
s20 interface instead to reach the 1000
slash 24 network try to complete the lab
yourself first then continue watching if
you have trouble or watch the video
after to check your solution so as it
says in the lab the routing protocol rip
is configured everywhere except between
r1 and r3 meaning it's not activated for
the s20 interfaces of r1 and r3 however
our goal is to configure what's called a
floating static route which will cause
r1 to send traffic destined to the 10000
slash 24 network using its s20 interface
when it's read via r3 goes down we
actually only need one command to
complete this lab but let me explain
some things first if you have already
learned these things in your studies
this can just be a review let me go on
r1
enable show IP route there are two
connected routes the 192.168 12 zero and
one and two dot one six eight dot 13.0
networks r1 has also learned two routes
from rip as indicated by the are here
one is the 192.168.1 III o network which
are two advertised look right next to
the address there are two numbers here
in square brackets 120
/ one what do these numbers mean first
the one this is known as the metric the
metric depends on the routing protocols
such as AI g RP OSPF or rip-rip uses hop
count to calculate the metric the metric
of one here indicates one hop as we can
rich reach it by a single router hop
over to r2 to which it is a directly
connected network now look at the entry
for the 10000 network its metric is 2
that is because there are 2 router hops
to reach it first to r2 then to r3 to
which it is a directly connected network
lower the metric the more desirable the
route but there is one factor of higher
priority than the metric that is the
administrative distance which is the
number to the left of the metric in both
cases it is 120 because that is the
default metric of a route learned from
rip because the administrative distance
is higher priority than the metric if a
router learns multiple possible routes
to a destination it first compares the
administrative distances and chooses the
lowest distance route to put in the
routing table only if the administrative
distances are the same does it compare
the metrics now I said rip has an
administrative distance of 120 how about
if we create a normal static route
let's try compte let's create a static
route to the 1000 network IP route 10000
255.255.255.0 192.168 - next table to r3
do show IP route
well now the route to 10000 learned via
rip isn't displayed in the routing table
it has been replaced with our static
route because it has a lower
administrative distance the default
administrative distance of a static
route is 1
as you can see here so have we completed
the lab no our instructions are to
configure what's called a floating
static rift that is a static route which
is only entered into the routing table
when the regular route is not available
such as when an interface goes down how
can we do that
well when configuring a static route we
can also specify the administrative
distance for that route if we specify an
administrative distance higher than that
of the RIP route the static route will
not appear in the routing table and thus
not be used unless we stop receiving the
RIP route from our to do to an interface
failure or something
so let's undo our static route by
putting no in front of the command now
let's use the command at gain and here
I'll use the context-sensitive help
question mark and you can see we can set
the distance of the route the
administrative distance of RIP is 120 so
let's just set it to one higher 121 okay
now let's check the routing table again
do show IP route this time the static
route is not displayed
let's use the traceroute command to
ensure that it is still taking the path
through r2 to r3 we haven't used the
traceroute command yet in these labs but
it's very useful it's like the ping
command but it sends a reply back from
each router on the way to its
destination so you can trace the path it
takes through the network
I'll trace to PC one do trace route 1000
11 as you can see it is indeed going to
r2 before going to r3 and then ending up
at PC one now let's simulate an
interphase error I'll turn off the s30
interface which is connected to our two
interface s30 shutdown okay now do show
IP route our rip routes are gone however
immediately the floating static route
which we configured takes the place of
the previous route to 10000 let's try a
trace route from router 1 to PC 1 again
do trace route 1000 11 this time it goes
straight to r3 and then ends up at PC 11
I'm sorry PC 1 our floating static route
is functioning exactly as intended now
let's turn on this interface again no
shutdown
what do you think will happen it can
take a bit of time but hopefully as I'm
talking the process will finish
currently art 2 is regularly sending rip
advertisements of its route to 1000 to
r1 now that our ones s30 interface is up
again when r1 receives one of those
advertisements on the interface it will
replace the floating static route in the
routing table with the route learned by
rip because the administrative distance
of RIP is 120 and the floating static
route we configured has an ad of 121
okay let's check do show IP route
as you can see the floating static route
is gone and now the RIP route is back in
the routing table
I hope this lab helped you understand a
little about administrative distance and
floating static routes soon we will do
more labs focusing on routing protocols
like ew grpe and OSPF and also rip which
we saw a little in this lab that's all
for the lab thank you for watching I
hope this lab and video have been
helpful for you please subscribe for
future labs like this which will be
released weekly if you have requests for
any specific labs let me know in the
comment section if you want to support
my channel please consider contributing
to my patreon patreon comm slash
Jeremy's IT lab I accept Bitcoin and
etherium donations via the addresses in
the description I am also a brave
verified publisher and accept bat or
basic attention token donations in the
brave browser