0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description in this lab the second of
our labs focusing on ACLs we will
configure extended ACLs unlike standard
ACLs which only filter traffic based on
the source IP address extended ACLs can
filter on things like protocol source IP
address and destination IP address our
task is to configure and apply a single
extended ACL to allow only pc-12 access
server one and only hosts on the 192.168
204 network to access server two first
where should I apply the ACL the general
rule is to apply extended ACLs as close
as possible to the source as opposed to
standard ACLs which should be applied as
close as possible to the destination I
want to achieve this in a single ACL so
I'll apply it to our ones s20 interface
so let's go on our one an able CAUTI to
create an extended ACL you begin with
the same command as for standard ACLs
access lists now I'll use
context-sensitive help I mentioned this
in the previous video but remember that
1 to 99 is the range for standard ACLs
and 100 to 199 is the range for extended
ACLs I'll go with 100 context-sensitive
help again I'll choose permit to allow
pc-12 access server 1 afterward I'll
create another statement to deny all
other traffic to server 1 let's do
contact sensitive help again now you can
see that this is different than for
standard ACLs here are a bunch of
protocols which you can use to filter
traffic
the general catch-all is IP so let's go
with that let's check the options again
now I'll choose host since we're
filtering from one host 192.168.1 11
next I'll enter host again and set the
destination 192.168 3 dot 100 contact
sensitive help again you can see there
are other options but we'll end the
command here ok so that's our first
entry in the ACL now let's create
another one to deny all other traffic to
server 1 access list 100 deny IP any
host 192.168.1 hundred this denies
traffic from any host to server 1 and
will apply to any traffic except PC 1
now let's satisfy the second requirement
we have to allow only hosts on the
192.168 2's flash 24 network to access
server 2 first let's create another
permit statement access list 100 permit
IP 192.168.20.10 168 3 dot 101 this
command permits any hosts in the
192.168.0 slash 24 network to access the
host 192.168.1 o one which is server 2
now lets deny all other traffic to
server to access list 100 deny IP any
host 192.168.0.1 o1 ok we have fulfilled
both requirements now let's create one
more statement to allow any other
traffic remember at the end of any ACL
there is an implicit deny any our
requirements didn't state to deny all
other traffic so let's override that
implicit deny any access list 100 permit
IP any any that's it finally let's apply
the ACL to r1
s20 interface interface s20 IP access
group 100 out
now this ACL will apply to all outbound
traffic on our ones s20 interface let's
test it out from each PC I'll ping each
server first PC one it should be able to
access server one but not server two
ping 192.168.1 hundred it works next
ping 192.168 3 dot 101 it doesn't work
ok functioning as intended so far now PC
2 it shouldn't be able to access server
1 or server to pay 192.168.1 hundred
doesn't work ping 192.168.1 o 1 doesn't
work again now let's go on PC 3 it
shouldn't be able to ping server 1 but
it should be able to ping the server to
pay 192.168.1 hundred doesn't work
paying 192.168.1 o 1
it works as expected finally PC four
which should be the same as PC three
came one ninety two dot one sixty eight
dot three dot one hundred doesn't work
ping 192.168.1 oh one it works
so our ACL is functioning as intended
that's all for this lab thank you for
watching I hope this lab and video have
been helpful for you please subscribe
for future labs like this which will be
released weekly if you have requests for
any specific labs let me know in the
comment section if you want to support
my channel please consider contributing
to my patreon patreon comm slash
Jeremy's IT lab I accept Bitcoin and
etherium donations via the addresses in
the description I am also a brave
verified publisher and accept bat or
basic attention token donations in the
brave browser