0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description this lab will be one last
lab focusing exclusively on ACLs this
time we will configure named standard
ACLs as opposed to the numbered ACLs we
configured in previous labs also
remember that standard ACLs filter based
only on source address as opposed to
extended ACLs which use other parameters
such as destination address as well our
first requirement is that hosts in the
192.168.1.0 / 24 and 192.168.0.0 a CL
zon are ones F 0 0 and F 1 0 interfaces
first let's create the ACL preventing
hosts in the 192.168 2's last 24 network
from communicating with the 192.168.1.0
/ 24 network on our one an able cough T
number ACLs are configured with the
command access list but named ACLs are
configured with this command IP access
list now let's check the options we'll
go with standard for this lab let's
check the game now notice you can also
create a numbered ACL with this command
however let's give it a name to two one
meaning from the 192.168.20.10 at work
to the 192.168.1.2 last 24 network now
let's check the options there are none
so clearly this is different from our
previous ACL configuration let's hit
enter to see what happens as you can see
we have created a sorry we have entered
a separate configuration mode from here
we will configure the contents of this
a CL let's check what options there are
let's create a deny statement first deny
192.168 200 200 255 now let's check the
options there are none because this is a
standard ACL so we only configure the
source IP that we are filtering now
let's create one more entry to allow all
other traffic because there is still
that implicit deny any at the end of the
ACL permit any exit okay that's it
before applying that ACL let's create
the second ACL to prevent traffic from
the 192.168.1.0 slash 24 network from
reaching the 1 & 2 - 1 6 8 - 0 / 24
network IP access list standard 1 - to
deny 192.168.1.0 oh oh oh 255 permit any
ok we have created both ACLs necessary
for the first requirement now let's
apply them exit first let's go on f00
interface f00 on this interface we will
block traffic from 192.168.0
the interface so IP access group 2 - 1
out now let's apply the other ACL to f10
interface f10 IP access group 1 - 2 out
now let's test this configuration I'll
try to ping from pc1 to pc2 192.168 2000
work we get a message saying destination
host unreachable and to pc for pig
192.168 to same thing just to make sure
I'll do some pings from PC
three as well ping 192.168.1 11 doesn't
work and ping 192.168.1.2 elv okay so
looks like our configuration worked now
let's go to the next requirement hosts
in the 192.168.20.10 160 8.3 o / 24
network remember the general rule that
standard ACLs should be applied as close
as possible to the destination in this
case the destination is 192.168.0 / 24
so let's configure the ACL on our to
enable conf t IP access list standard 2
to 3 deny 192.168 200 200 255 permit any
exit now let's apply it outbound on our
to s f00 interface interface f00 IP
access group 2 to 3 out finally let's
test I'll try to ping from PC 3 to
server 1 and server to ping 192.168.1
hundred destination host unreachable
ping 192.168.1 o1 destination host
unreachable
we have successfully completed this lab
thank you for watching I hope this lab
and video have been helpful for you
please subscribe for future labs like
this which we be released weekly if you
have requests for any specific labs let
me know in the comment section if you
want to support my channel please
consider contributing to my patreon
patreon comm / Jeremy's IT lab I accept
Bitcoin and aetherium donations via the
addresses in the description
I am also a brave verified publisher and
accept bat or basic attention token
donations in the brave browser