0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description in
this lab we will look at lldp link layer
discovery protocol this protocol is very
similar to a CDP Cisco discovery
protocol which we covered in a couple
previous labs CDP however is a cisco
proprietary protocol meaning it only
works with cisco devices lldp is an open
standard protocol and can be used on
both cisco devices and devices from
other vendors the first step is to
disable CDP and enable lldp on each
networking device these four devices are
Cisco devices so CDP is enabled by
default for this lab let's disable CDP
and enable lldp on switch one first
enable coffee tea no CDP run lldp run
exit that's it pretty simple now our one
an able coffee tea no CDP run lldp run
exit next are to enable coffee tea no
CDP run lldp run exit finally switch to
enable coffee tea no CDP run lldp run
exit okay so we have disabled CDP and
enabled lldp on each networking device
let's go back to switch one the next
step is to use a show command to find
the default timer values for lldp we can
do that with this command show lldp the
status is active which is what we want
and below are the timers the
advertisement timer is 30 seconds old
timer is 120 seconds and interface
re-initialization delay is 2 seconds
these are the default timers you might
want to remember these for the test
especially the advertisement and hold
timers next is to use lldp to identify
which interfaces are used to connect the
networking devices let's use this
command on switch 1 first show lldp
neighbors switch 1 has one neighbor r1
the local interface meaning the
interface here on switch one is Gigabit
Ethernet 1 0 1 and the port ID meaning
the interface on our one is Gigabit
Ethernet 0 0 let's use the same command
on r1 show lldp neighbors are ones gig 0
0 interface is connected to switch ones
gig 1 0 1 interface which we saw before
are ones gig 0 1 interface is connected
to our twos gig 0 0 interface ok let's
go on our to now show lldp neighbors as
we saw on r1 r2 s gig 0 0 interface is
connected to our ones gig 0 1 interface
also r2 s gig 0 1 interface is connected
to switch to s gig 0 1 interface let's
hop on switch to to confirm show lldp
neighbors there we go
switch to s gig 0 on interface is
connected to our two's gig 0 1 interface
the next task is to use lldp to identify
the iOS version of each neighboring
device let's start here on switch to to
view this information about a
neighboring device use this command show
lldp neighbors
you can see the iOS information for r2
here see 2900 software running version
15 point 1 4 m4 now let's go on our to
show lldp neighbors detail first we can
see switch 2 is running see 3560
software version 12 point to
a c1 also the neighboring r1 is running
see 2900 software version 15 point 1 4
and 4
finally let's go on r1 to find the
version of switch 1 show lldp neighbors
detail switch 1 is running catalyst
layer 3 switch software version 16 point
3 point 2 the final step is to prevent
switch to sf0 one interface which is
connected to a pc one from sending or
receiving lldp updates let's go on
switch to compte interface f01 to
disable lldp reception use this command
no lldp receive ok now to turn off lldp
transmission no lldp transmitted whereas
CDP uses one command CDP enable for both
reception and transmission ll dps is two
separate commands lldp receive and lldp
transmit that's all for this lab thank
you for watching I hope this lab and
video have been helpful for you please
subscribe for future labs like this
which will be released weekly if you
have requests for any specific labs let
me know in the comment section if you
want to support my channel
I accept Bitcoin and aetherium donations
via the addresses
in the description I am also a brave
verified publisher and accept bat or
basic attention token donations in the
brave browser