0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description in
this lab we will configure DHCP dynamic
host configuration protocol DHCP
dynamically provides IP addresses as
well as information like default gateway
and DNS server addresses to hosts so
that each host doesn't have to be
manually configured in this lab we will
configure r1 as a DHCP server which will
provide this information to the other
devices on the network we will also
configure r2 as a DHCP client on one
interface and as a DHCP relay agent on
another interface let's get started
first I want to show that our pcs don't
have IP addresses let's go on PC one IP
config it has an address in the 169.254
range this is an automatic private IP
address or apipa pc one is configured to
get its address via DHCP but there is no
DHCP server configured yet so this
address was automatically generated
let's get in a real usable IP address
the first step is to configure our DHCP
server r1 an able compte let's create
the first DHCP pool IP dhcp pool 10 pool
now we've created the pool and entered
DHCP configuration mode now let's
specify the range of addresses we will
be handing out to hosts 10000 / 24 in
this case network 10000 255.255.255.0
next the default gateway default router
1000won next the DNS server DNS server
1000 one note that I haven't actually
configured a DNS server in this lab I
just wanted to show that command finally
a range of excluded addresses these are
Abbas's that our DHCP server won't
distribute to hosts addresses that we
want to keep reserved this is actually
not configured in DHCP mode its
configured in global configuration mode
so exit IP dhcp excluded address now we
enter the first address in the range
1000 won then the last address in the
range 1000 10 that will exclude all
addresses from 1000 1 to 1000 10 from
being distributed by the DHCP server now
let's configure the next DHCP pool IP
dhcp pool 20 pool network 20000
255.255.255.0 default router 2000 one
DNS server 2000 one exit now let's
configure an excluded address range
again IP dhcp excluded address 2000 1
2000 10 ok now one more DHCP pool to
configure IP dhcp pool 12 pool network
192.168.1.0 255.255.255.0 exit ok our
DHCP server is now configured now hosts
in the 10000 / 24 network should have an
IP address I'll go on PC one
IP config slash release ipconfig slash
renew this will make PC 1 refresh its IP
configuration as you can see PC 1 now
has an IP address and a default gateway
and DNS server as we configured on our
DHCP server r1 now let's go to step 2
art to SG 0 0 interface has no IP
address configured typically we would
manually configure an IP address but I
want to show you how to use DHCP to get
an IP address for r2 we configured a
pool on our one with the 192.168 12/24
range and r2 will get an address from
that network let's go on our to enable
coffee/tea interface g 0 0 to make it
use DHCP to get an IP address use this
command IP address DHCP that's it
now let's enable the interface no shut
there we go
we get a message stating that r2 was
assigned a DHCP address exit step 2 is
now complete step 3 is to configure our
to SG 0 1 interface as a DHCP relay
agent so that hosts on the 2000 0 / 24
network can get IP addresses
although r1 is configured to give
addresses to the 2000 / 24 Network
because the hosts aren't connected to
the same network as r1 we need to
configure a DHCP relay agent the rule is
to configure the relay agent on the
layer 3 interface closest to the hosts
in this case r2 sg0 one interface first
let's check that that pcs don't have
addresses in the 2000 0/24 range yet
I'll go on PC 3
IP config once again the IP addresses in
the 169.254 range an automatic private
IP address let's go configure the relay
agent on our two interface G 0 1 to
configure the relay agent we just have
to use one command IP helper address
followed by the address of the DHCP
server which is R 1 so 192.168.1 that's
it now let's go back to pc 3 IP config
slash release IP config slash renew and
there we go
pc 3 now has an IP address in the 2000
slash 24 range as well as a default
gateway and dns server since our DHCP
relay agent relayed the DHCP messages
between the PC and the DHCP server
that's all for this lab thank you for
watching
I hope this lab and video have been
helpful for you please subscribe for
future labs like this which will be
released weekly if you have requests for
any specific labs
let me know in the comment section if
you want to support my channel I accept
Bitcoin and a theorem donations via the
addresses in the description I am also a
brave verified publisher and accept bat
or basic attention token donations in
the brave browser