0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description in
this lab we will look at DNS the domain
name System DNS is used to translate
names such as Cisco comm or google.com
to their appropriate IP addresses for us
humans these names are easier to
remember than IP addresses and I'm sure
very few of us actually know the IP
address of google.com for example so DNS
is very useful in this lab I have set up
a DNS server DNS one with the host names
of all the servers and networking
devices and their corresponding IP
addresses configured we will use DHCP
again to give pc1 & pc2 their IP
addresses as well as tell them to use
DNS 1 as a DNS server let's get started
the first step is to set up a DHCP pool
on our one like we did in the previous
lab enable compte before I make the pool
I'll set up the excluded address range
which if you remember is configured
outside of DHCP configuration mode IP
dhcp excluded address 192.168.1.1
192.168.1.2 n ok now let's make the pool
IP dhcp pool one pool network
192.168.1.0 255.255.255.0 default router
192.168.1.1 we won't specify a DNS
server just yet now let's go on pc one
just to make sure i'll do our release
and renew IP config slash release IP
config slash renew
okay now pc one has an IP address and
default gateway however it has no dns
server yet let's try to ping server 1 by
IP address
ting 1000 101 the ping works it sends
the ping to its default gateway r1 which
then fords it to a server 1 now let's
try to ping by name ping server 1 ping
request could not find host server one
without a DNS server assigned PC one
can't translate the name server 1 to the
appropriate IP address let's fix that
let's go back on r1 and add the DNS 1
server as a DNS server to the DHCP pool
DNS server 2000 100 now I'll go back on
PC 1 and do another release and renew to
refresh the information and get the DNS
server IP config slash release IP config
slash renew ok now we've got the DNS
server information let's try to ping
server 1 and serve a2 by name ping
server 1 it can take some time to reach
the DNS server to resolve the name to
the IP address but in the end the ping
works
okay now let's ping server 2 by name as
well
ping server 2
again the ping works notice that
although we use the command ping server
to immediately under it says pinging
1000 dot 102 as the DNS server result
the name to the proper IP address next
is to try the same from switch 1 switch
1 has an IP address on its VLAN 1
interface so it can send and receive
pings however let's see if you can do so
without any further setup an able ping
1000 101 the ping fails
since the ping by IP address fails
there's no need to try to ping by name
if PC one camp in server 1 Y can't
switch 1 well r1 has distributed default
gateway and DNS information to PC 1 via
DHCP however it's not giving that
information to switch 1 so let's
manually configure r1 as switch ones
default gateway and DNS 1 as switch ones
DNS server compte to specify a default
gateway use this command IP default
gateway 192.168.1.1 ok now to specify a
DNS server use this command IP name
server 2000 100 exit ok let's try those
pings again ping 1000 dot 101
Dapeng works this time and now let's try
to ping by name and see if our dns
configuration works ping server one
it works again and actually you can see
the message here translating server 1
domain server 2000 100 and then down
here the IP address of server 1 1000 101
ok in this lab we took a bit of a look
at DNS the domain name system that's all
for this lab thank you for watching I
hope this lab and video have been
helpful for you please subscribe for
future labs like this which will be
released weekly if you have requests for
any specific labs let me know in the
comment section if you want to support
my channel I accept Bitcoin and
aetherium donations via the addresses in
the description I am also a brave
verified publisher and accept bat or
basic attention token donations in the
brave browser