0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description this lab is the second of
our labs focusing on Matt network
address translation this time we will
configure dynamic NAT unlike static map
which creates a one-to-one translation
from an inside address to an outside
address dynamic NAT dynamically assigns
addresses as needed from a pool of
outside addresses that you configure
beforehand this is much more efficient
than static NAT in this lab we will use
dynamic map to translate private IP
addresses in the 192.168.1.0 / 24
network to public IP addresses in the
12.30 / 24 network this lab uses the
same topology as the previous lab and
once again
ripp has been pre-configured so that all
points in the network should be
reachable once again however I have
configured ACLs on the routers blocking
private addresses from being routed over
the serial connection between them which
simulates the Internet let's ping from
pc-12 server one just to confirm that PC
one cannot reach server one ping one dot
one dot one dot 100
as expected the pink fails
so let's configure dynamic NAT on our
one first I'll configure that inside and
outside interfaces enable Conti
interface g00 IP NAT inside interface s
0 3 0 IP NAT outside exit dynamic NAT
involves a few extra steps beyond static
NAT we have to create an ACL which we
use to identify the inside addresses
that we will translate we also have to
create an app pool which is the range of
outside addresses we will translate our
inside addresses to first let's create
the access list keep in mind this use of
an ACL is different than how we
previously used it before we used ACLs
to block or allow traffic from entering
or exiting an interface this time
however we will use an ACL to identify
which traffic we want to translate
traffic which is permitted by the ACL
will be translated traffic which is
denied by the ACL won't be blocked it
simply won't be translated so let's
create a standard ACL which permits the
192.168.1.0 / 24 network access list 1
permit 192.168.1.0
oh-oh-oh 255 that's it the implicit deny
any at the end of the ACL will prevent
traffic from outside of the 192.168.1.0
/ 24 network from being translated next
let's create the NAT pool to do so use
this command IP NAT pool followed by the
pool name I'll use pool 1 then we enter
the first address in the range of
addresses we want to include in this
pool which is 1 2 3 10 according to our
instructions
next we put the last address in the
range 1 to 320 X twe type netmask
followed by the subnet mask which is
255.255.255.0
so our command is IP nat pool pool 1 1 2
3 10 1 2 3 20 met mask 255.255.255.0 ok
our pool is now configured finally let's
configure NAT itself the command starts
the same as with static NAT IP NAT
inside source
now with static NAT we use IP NAT inside
source static however for dynamic NAT we
will use IP net inside source list
followed by the name or number of our
ACL which is 1 then pool followed by the
pool name which is pool 1 so our command
is IP net inside source list 1 pool pool
1 our dynamic map configuration is now
complete
I'll go on each PC and quickly ping
server 1 then go on r1 to check the
translations on PC 1 first ping 1.1.1
dot 100
okay next I'll go on PC to and ping
server one ping 1.1 1.1 hundred okay and
next I'll go on PC three ping 1.1 1.1
hundred okay now let's go on r1 to check
these translations exit to check the net
translations use this command show IP
nak translations notice at the top the
terms inside global inside local outside
local outside global we want to focus on
inside global and inside local inside
global is the Abbas's we translate it to
in the 12.30 / 24 subnet and inside
local is the original private IP address
range in the 192.168.1.0 / 24 subnet
note that the number after the colon in
these IP addresses indicates a port
number here is 192.168.1.1 pc 1 and
address it was translated to here is
192.168.1.2 elv pc 2 and the address it
was translated to and here is
192.168.1.3
pc 3 and the address it was translated
to if you want to clear all of these
dynamic translations use this command
clear IP neck translation followed by an
asterisk
okay now let's do that show command one
more time show IP NAT translations there
we go our translations are cleared
we have successfully configured dynamic
NAT that's all for this lab thank you
for watching I hope this lab and video
have been helpful for you please
subscribe for future labs like this
which will be released weekly if you
have requests for any specific labs let
me know in the comment section if you
want to support my channel I accept
Bitcoin and aetherium donations via the
addresses in the description I am also a
brave verified publisher and accept bat
or basic attention token donations in
the brave browser