0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description this is the third and last
of our labs focusing on nat network
address translation this lab will focus
on Pat port address translation static
NAT is sometimes referred to as
one-to-one and dynamic NAT is sometimes
referred to as many to many by that
logic
Pat is many to one many addresses are
translated to a single IP address but
the router keeps track of the layer for
port number used so it can identify each
of the inside hosts for example when we
configure Pat in this network we can
then ping from pc-1 pc2 and pc 3 to
server 1 at the same time all of them
will use the same address that of our
ones as 0 3 0 interface 1.2.3 1 however
each of them will use a different port
number so our one can forward the return
traffic from server 1 back to the
correct PC we are using the same
topology as in the previous net labs if
we try to ping server one from PC one it
should fail once again let's try ping
1.1.1 100
the pink fails once again this is
because PC one has an IP address in a
private IP range these addresses are not
routable on the Internet
to simulate the Internet I have
configured ACLs on r1 and r2 to prevent
private IP addresses from being routed
on the serial link between them so let's
configure Pat on r1 to translate the IP
addresses of pc-1 pc2 and pc 3 to the IP
address of our ones s0 3-0 interface
I'll go on r1 enable compte again I'll
set the inside and outside NAT
interfaces interface g00 IP NAT inside
interface s 0 3 0 IP NAT outside exit
now to configure a dynamic NAT we had to
configure an ACL and an app pool before
we configure the NAT statement itself
for Pat we just create an ACL to
identify the inside address range to
translate and then we create a NAT
statement to translate them to the
outside interface let's make the ACL
remember this ACL is used to identify
traffic not to allow or block traffic
traffic permitted by the ACL will be
translated traffic denied by the ACL
won't be translated but won't be blocked
let's make an ACL to permit traffic from
the 192.168.1.0 / 24 network access list
1 permit 192.168.1 oh oh oh oh 255
that's it
now we just have to make the NAT
statement the first half is identical to
dynamic NAT IP NAT inside source list 1
which identifies ACL 1 next however we
type interface followed by the outside
interface s 0 3 0 in this case
finally remember to add overload at the
end this is what allows the router to
translate multiple hosts to the same IP
address and keep track of the layer for
port number to identify each host so our
command is IP NAT inside source list one
interface s zero three zero overload our
PAP configuration is complete now let's
test and then check the translations on
our one out paying server one from each
of the PCs KC one first ping 1.1 1.1
hundred next PC to ping 1.1 1.1 hundred
finally pc 3 ping 1.1 1.1 hundred ok now
let's go on r1 and check the
translations exit show IP NAT
translations as you can see our inside
local addresses look the same as in the
previous lab but the inside global
addresses are all the same as I said
before however r1 keeps track of these
layer 4 port numbers so it knows which
PC to send the return traffic from
server 1 2 now do you remember the
command to use if you want to clear
these translations clear IP NAT
translation asterisk show IP NAT
translations the translation table is
empty
ok that's all for this lab
thank you for watching I hope this lab
and video have been helpful for you
please subscribe for future labs like
this which will be released weekly if
you have requests for any specific labs
let me know in the comment section if
you want to support my channel I accept
Bitcoin and aetherium donations via the
addresses in the description I am also a
brave verified publisher and accept bass
or basic attention token donations in
the brave browser