0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this in this
lab we are going to do some important
device management tasks including
password recovery configuration backup
and operating system upgrading first we
are locked out of our one someone else
configured an enable password and forgot
it so we can't enter privileged exec
mode and thus can't enter global
configuration mode to change the
password so how can we solve this we
have to use the rom monitor command line
AKA rahman to enter rahman reset the
router and then press control break
before it finishes booting to do that in
packet tracer click on r1 and under the
physical tab here flick the power switch
off and on then switch to the CLI and
press control break there we are we're
now in ROM on the next step in password
recovery is to change the configuration
register to make r1 startup and ignore
the startup configuration in NVRAM and
startup with a default configuration
then we will enter privileged exec mode
without needing a password copy the
startup config to the running config to
make it active and then change the
password and save the configuration
again so to change the configuration
register from rahman use this command
conf reg and to make it ignore the
contents of nvram type 0 x2 1 for 2 then
type reset to reset the router
there we go Arwen has now booted
ignoring this startup-config enable see
no password was needed now that we are
safely in privileged exec mode I will
copy the start config to the running
config copy start run as you can see the
host name has changed to r1 as the
startup config is now the running config
let's change the password to CCNA compte
enable secret CCNA I'll also enable the
g00 interface interface g00 no shut now
it's important to restore the
configuration register to its default so
it doesn't always ignore the startup
config when booting up exit from ramen
we used the contract command but from
the regular CLI use config register and
the default setting is 0 X - 1 0 - exit
now let's save the configuration right
step 2 is to backup our ones startup
configuration to our server TFTP 1 first
I'll ping it to make sure it's reachable
ping 192.168.1.1 hundred ok looks good
- copy the configuration to a TFTP
server use this command copy startup
config TFTP now it asks us the IP
address 192.168.1.1 hundred and the file
name let's accept the default there we
go
I'll go on TFTP one to check if it's
there click on the server and packet
tracer click services and then click
TFTP there it is our one config we have
successfully backed up our one startup
configuration
the final step is to upgrade our ones
iOS image to a newer version which is on
our T of TP server first let's check the
iOS version on our one show version here
it says the version C 2900 software
version fifteen point one four and four
and down here is the image file now
let's find the new image on TFTP one
here it is the C 2900 image and it's
version fifteen point five three indeed
a newer version I'll copy the name with
ctrl C now let's go back to our one I
want to copy the file from the TFTP
server to flash storage
so copy TFTP flash enter the IP address
192.168.1.1 hundred and then paste the
file name
great we've copied the image from TFTP
to flash let's check show flash now
there are two iOS images in flash let's
delete the old one I'll copy the file
name here then delete it with this
command delete flash : and then paste
the file name okay show flash now we
only have one iOS image on flash let's
reload the router so it uses the new iOS
version reload
okay r1 has booted up an Abel okay now
let's check to the iOS version show
version there we go we're using the new
iOS version and here's the new image
file okay in this lab we performed
password recovery configuration backup
and an iOS upgrade that's all for this
lab thank you for watching I hope this
lab and video have been helpful for you
please subscribe for future labs like
this which will be released weekly if
you have requests for any specific labs
let me know in the comment section if
you want to support my channel I accept
Bitcoin and aetherium donations via the
addresses in the description I am also a
brave verified publisher and accept bat
or basic attention token donations in
the brave browser