0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this in this
lab we will practice some basic ipv6
configurations including ipv6 address
configuration slack or stateless address
auto-configuration and ipv6 static
revving let's get right into it
the first step is to enable ipv6 on the
routers and configure some ipv6
addresses I'll go on r1 first enable
compte ipv6 is not enabled by default to
enable it use this command ipv6 unicast
routing now let's configure the
addresses according to the network
diagram interface g00 ipv6 address 2001
DB 8 1 2 3 1 2 3 double colon 1/64 also
let's enable the interface no chef
interface G 0 1 IP v6 address 2001 DB 8
1 1 double colon 1/64 no chef makes it
okay let's check do show ipv6 interface
brief there are the addresses we
configured but what are these other
addresses there link local addresses and
they are automatically generated on ipv6
interfaces these addresses are never
routed they only work on the local link
link local addresses are in the fe80
slash 10 range ok that's it for our one
next let's go on our to enable compte on
our 2 we will only configure the g0 one
in
face for now as in the next step we will
use slack to configure the address for
the g00 interface interface G 0 1 IP p6
address 2001 DB 8 2 2 double colon 1/64
no shutdown ok let's go on r3 and do the
same in abel compte interface g 0 1 IP
v6 address 2001 DB 8 3 3 double colon
1/64 no shutdown ok now in step 2 we
will use slack stateless address
auto-configuration to automatically
generate ipv6 addresses for r2 and r3 SG
0 0 interfaces how does slack work to
put it briefly ipv6 uses NDP or neighbor
discovery protocol and as part of NDP r1
is currently sending RA or router
advertisement messages on its G 0 0
interface when we configure slack r2 and
r3 will receive these messages and use
them to learn the network prefix which
is 2001 DB 8 1 2 3 1 2 3 / 64 in this
case they will take that prefix and use
a modified version of their own MAC
address to generate the rest of the IP
address hopefully you've learned this in
your studies if you're not familiar with
it now make sure you are for the test
anyway the configuration is simple we
are on our 3 already so let's do it here
first interface G 0 0 no shutdown
ipv6 address Auto config exit next I'll
go on r2 interface G 0 0 no shutdown
ipv6 address Auto config exit these
routers won't generate their addresses
immediately so I'll pause the video as
we wait for the router advertisements
from R 1 to reach them
okay I'm on r2 and as you can see from
the output of the show ipv6 interface
brief command r2 has generated an ipv6
address for its g0z interface and on r3
you can see the same next let's
configure some ipv6 static Reds on each
router will have to configure two static
routes one for each of the other routers
internal networks now to configure an
next hop address of r2 and r3 we will
have to use their slack addresses which
are not easy to remember so to do so
I'll be copy and pasting their addresses
first let me copy our twos g00 address
okay now I'll create the first route on
r1 to our two's internal network ipv6
route 2001 DB 8 2 2 double colon slash
64 now let me paste in our two's address
there we go now since I already have our
two SG 0 0 address copied I'm going to
configure the same route on our three
ipv6 route 2001 DB 8 2 2 double colon
slash 64 and paste our two's address in
there we go
now I'll copy our fries jeez user
interface address and make a route to
its internal network on r1 and r2 there
we go
now I'll go on our one IP v6 route 2001
DV 8 3 3 double colon slash 64 and paste
in the address
there we go next on our to high six
route 2001 DB 8 3 3 double colon slash
64 and once again paste in the address
okay
now let's configure routes to our ones
internal network on r2 and r3 since i'm
on r2 already let's start here
ipv6 route 2001 DB 8 1 1 double colon
slash 64 2001 DB 8 1 2 3 1 2 3 double
colon 1 ok now on our three ipv6 route
2001 deviate 1 1 double colon slash 64
2001 DB 8 1 2 3 1 2 3 double colon 1 ok
all of our routes are now configured for
this video I won't ping from each router
but let's just try out some things from
r3 to test first I'll ping PC ones
address exit ping 2001 DB 8 1 1 double
colon 64 ok the ping works and now I'll
ping PC to ping 2001 DB 8 2 2 double
colon 64 again the ping works in this
lab we configured manual ipv6 addresses
slack addressing and ipv6 static ribs
that's all for this lab thank you for
watching I hope this lab and video have
been helpful for you please subscribe
for future labs like this which will be
released weekly if you have requests for
any specific labs let me know in the
comments section if you want to support
my channel I accept a Bitcoin and
aetherium donations via the addresses in
the description I am also a brave
verified
publisher and accept bat or basic
attention token donations in the brave
browser