0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this
we're coming to the end of the icnd1
labs in this lab we will configure a
variety of things which we learned
before and then in the next lab will
troubleshoot some problems with the same
network topology we will configure rip
syslog NAT DHCP and SSH let's get
started the first step is to configure
rip on r1 r2 and r3 let's start on r1
enable compte router rip
we're instructed to use rip version 2
and disable auto summary so version 2 no
auto now lets advertise our ones
connected networks network 192.168.1.0
network 12.30 exit okay let's go to our
to enable coffee/tea router rip version
2 no Auto network 192.168.20.10 exit
finally let's go on r3 enable coffee/tea
router rip version 2 no Auto network
3000 Network 12.30
exit ok that's all for the rip
configuration it may take some time for
all routes to show up in the database
but you can confirm with do show IP rip
database step 2 is to configure r1 r2
and r3 to send syslog messages to server
1
all we need is one command on each
router to do this since I'm already on
r3 let's start here
logging 3000 dot 100 that's it logging
host 3000 100 would also have the same
effect next are two logging 3000 100
okay and finally r1 logging 3000 100
that's all for step two the next step is
to configure Pat port address
translation on r1 and r2 the network's
192.168.1.0 slash 24 and 192.168.0 slash
24 are private networks and they cannot
be routed over the Internet
like in our previous NAT labs i've
pre-configured ACLs on r1 r2 and r3 to
prevent them from being routed
so let's translate their addresses to
the address on r1 and r2 s gigabit 0 1
interfaces let's start here on r1 first
I'll configure the inside and outside
NAT interfaces interface G 0 0 IP NAT
inside interface G 0 1 IP NAT outside
next let's create the ACL to identify
which traffic to translate I'll make an
ACL permitting the one and two dot one
six eight dot one dot o slash 24 network
exit access list one permit 192.168.1.0
oh-o-oh dot 255 ok finally let's make
the NAT statement itself IP net inside
source list one interface g0 one
overload that's it now let's do the same
thing on r2 interface G 0 0 IP net
inside interface G 0 1 IP net outside
exit access list 1 permit 192.168 200
250 5 IP NAT inside source list one
interface G 0 1 overload that's all for
our pad configuration however our pcs
still don't have IP addresses so next is
connects tis to configure our one as a
DHCP server with two dhcp pools since
we're in global configuration mode i'll
configure the excluded address ranges
first remember excluded ranges aren't
configured in DHCP configuration mode
but rather in global configuration mode
IP dhcp excluded address 192.168.1.1
192.168.1 10 and for the second pool
IP dhcp excluded address 192.168.1.1 6 8
to 10 ok now let's create and configure
the first pool IP dhcp pool one pool
network 192.168.1.0 255.255.255.0
default router
192.168.1.1 dns server
3000 dot 100 exit ok and now let's
create the second pool IP dhcp pool to
pool network 192.168.20.10 default
router 192.168.1 dns server
3000 100 exit let's check if pc one can
get an IP address
IP config slash release IP config slash
renew there we go now how about PC for
IP config slash release IP config slash
renew it doesn't work now that's because
r1 isn't connected to the 192.168.0
slash 24 network so their DHCP discovery
messages don't reach our one
so let's configure r2 as a DHCP relay
agent so it will relay DHCP messages
between them interface g00 IP helper
address followed by our ones address one
two three one exit now let's try again
on PC for IP config slash renew there we
go
DHCP is now working next we must
configure SSH access on the vty lines of
router one really you should do this on
all of these routers and switches but
let's keep it to just r1 for this lab so
there are a few requirements to
configure SSH one is a hostname which is
already pre-configured r1 but if it
wasn't you could configure it with this
command hostname r1 next is a domain
name let's go with cisco comm IP domain
name cisco calm also we need a user
account on this device username cisco
password CCNA next you must generate an
RSA key with 1024 bit modulus crypto key
generate RSA then enter the modulus size
here of 1024
okay now let's configure the vty lines
line vty 0 15 first let's enable local
authentication login local next let's
enable ssh transport input ssh exit also
I forgot to configure ssh version 2 so
let's do that here from global
configuration mode IP ssh version 2
that's it now let's try to ssh to r1
from pc1 ssh - l cisco which is the
username 192.168.1.1 now enter the
password for our account cisco which is
CCNA there we go we're in exit so in
this lab we did some configurations of
various technologies we learned
throughout these labs now I will take
this completed lab break some of the
configurations and will troubleshoot it
in the next and final lab of the icnd1
series that's all for this lab thank you
for watching I hope this lab and video
have been helpful for you please
subscribe for future labs like this
which will be released weekly if you
have requests for any specific labs let
me know in the comment section if you
want to support my channel I accept a
Bitcoin and aetherium donations via the
addresses in the description I am also a
brave verified publisher and accept bat
or basic attention token donations in
the brave browser