0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this in this
lab the final lab of my icnd1 series we
will troubleshoot some miss
configurations in this topology this is
the same topology from the previous
configuration lab but I've purposefully
made some miss configurations I highly
recommend you go through this lab
yourself to find and fix the errors on
your own and just use this video to
check your solution let's get started
the first problem is that R 2 and R 3
aren't receiving a rip route to
192.168.1.0 / 24 from R 1 first let's
confirm the problem on our to enable
show IP rip database we have a route to
our threes inside Network 30000 / 24 but
not 2 192.168.1.1 T 4 let's check on our
3 to enable show IP rip database
there's our two's 192.168 - 0 / 24
network but not 192.168.1.0 / 24 ok so R
2 and R 3 are exchanging routes with
each other so there are probably no
issues with R 2 and R 3 let's take a
look at R 1 enable show IP rip database
this is interesting
R 1 is receiving routes from R 2 and R 3
but not advertising a route to
192.168.1.0 / 24 to them there is one
very likely cause show IP protocols this
command is useful for getting
information about routing protocols such
as rip
running on the router and here is our
issue passive interfaces Gigabit
Ethernet 0-1 a passive interface we'll
listen for advertisements but will not
advertise any reps let's fix that
comte router rip no passive interface G
0 1 2 make a passive interface you just
use the passive interface command under
router rip configuration mode and of
course to remove it just use no in front
of the command exit so as long as there
are no other problems here r2 and r3
should have a route to 192.168.1.0 slash
24 now I'll check on our to show IP rip
database there it is
and on r3 show IP rip database ok
problem one is solved the next issue is
that hosts in the 192.168.0 slash 24
network aren't receiving IP addresses
via DHCP let's confirm I'll go on PC for
IP config it has an IP address in the
169.254 range an automatic private IP
address let's try our release and renew
IP config slash release IP config slash
renew it doesn't work pc v & p c6
probably have addresses in the same
169.254 range
let's check pc v IP config yep as
expected and pc 6 IP config again an
automatic private IP address so what
could be the problem because the DHCP
server is not directly connected to
192.168.0 / 24 network there could be a
problem with the DHCP relay agent R -
let's check their show IP interface G 0
0 helper address is not set there's our
problem let's fix that call for t
interface G 0 0 IP helper address 1.2.3
one exit let's see if we can ping the
helper address do ping one two three one
okay we can reach it
so DHCP should work now let's try on PC
for IP config slash release ipconfig
slash renew okay it works let's go to
the next problem Pat doesn't work on r1
first let's check the problem I'll ping
from pc1 to server 1 and then check the
translations on r1 ping 3000 dot 100 ok
we reached server 1 now let's go on r1
and check the translations do show IP
nat translations nothing appears so
let's find the problem do show IP nat
statistics our inside and outside
interfaces are correct so that's not a
problem do show run pipe include net IP
nat inside source list 2 interface g0 1
overload let's check this access list to
do show access lists there's our problem
there is no access list to it's access
list 1
let's fix the net statement I'll copy it
and paste it here and use know to cancel
it out now I'll rewrite it to use X as
this one instead of X's list - IP NAT
inside source list one interface g0 one
overload okay now let's try again I'll
ping from pc1 ping 3000 100 and check
again on r1 do show IP NAT translations
there we go
r1 is now translating PC ones address
the next issue is that hosts in the
192.168.1.0 / 24 network aren't
receiving a DNS server via DHCP let's
check the issue on PC one ipconfig /all
indeed there is no DNS server here now
the most likely issue is with the DHCP
pool on r1 so let's check do show run
indeed there is no DNS server configured
in the DHCP pool I'll fix that IP dhcp
pool 1 pool
DNS server 3000 100 exit ok let's go to
pc 1 IP config slash release ipconfig
slash renew ok the DNS server appears
let's try to ping the hostname to server
1 ping server 1
there we go DNS is functioning properly
the final issue is that r1 cannot be
connected to via SSH I'll try again from
pc1 the username is Cisco and password
CCNA same as the previous lab SSH - el
cisco 192.168.1.1 indeed it doesn't work
let's investigate on r1 do show run pipe
begin line look at the vty line
configurations can you spot the misc
configuration transport input telnet is
set this restricts vty line access to
telnet so ssh doesn't work let's fix
that line vty 0 15 transport input ssh
ok let's try one more time from pc1 ssh
- el cisco 192.168.1.1 there we go
password of CCNA and we're in in this
lab we did some troubleshooting of
various problems involving technologies
we configured in previous labs this was
the final lab of my icnd1 series I hope
these labs have helped you practice your
skills and prepare for the exam I will
now be getting to work on the icnd2 labs
that's all for this lab thank you for
watching I hope this lab and video have
been helpful for you please subscribe
for future labs like this which will be
released weekly if you have requests for
any specific labs let me know in the
comments section if you want to support
my channel I accept a Bitcoin and
aetherium donations via the addresses in
the description I am also a brave
verified publisher and accept a bat or
basic attention token donations in the
brave browser