0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this this lab
takes the same topology you configured
in the previous lab and asks you to
troubleshoot and fix some errors I have
made one miss configuration / switch
that is affecting connectivity in this
network find the errors and fix them to
restore connectivity in troubleshooting
it's important to always confirm the
problem and know the exact extent of
what's wrong so let's try to ping other
pcs within the same VLAN let's ping from
pc1 first I'll ping PC to ping 1000 -
okay it works that's good to know
now how about PC 5 ping 10005 doesn't
work ok now how about in VLAN 20 let's
ping from PC 8 10 PC 9 at 1000 9 doesn't
work now VLAN 30 let's ping from PC 6 to
PC 7 ping 1000 7 ok it doesn't work and
finally VLAN 40 I'll ping from PC e3 to
PC for ping 1000 4 it doesn't work
okay so pc1 & pc2 can ping each other
but otherwise there is no connectivity
let's focus on one problem at a time and
solve it and perhaps solving that
problem will fix the other problems as
well let's focus on the problem of
connectivity within VLAN 10 let's go on
switch 1 and investigate enable let's
see if there are problems with our VLANs
show VLAN brief looks like we have the
VLANs we want and the correct interfaces
are assigned to them however if you look
carefully you can spot something wrong
here gig 0 1 is shown under the default
VLAN VLAN 1 it's supposed to be a trunk
link show interfaces trunk indeed we
have no trunk configured show run gig 0
1 is configured in access mode let's fix
that
coffee tea interface G 0 1 switch port
mode trunk do show interfaces trunk ok
now our trunk is working can you ping
from pc1 to pc2
Bing 1000 5 no we still can't let's move
on to switch to enable let's check the
VLANs here show VLAN brief so we don't
see our gig 0 1 & gig 0 2 interfaces
which is good because there trunks but
there is a problem here this problem
actually isn't relevant to VLAN 10
connectivity but it will solve another
problem F 0 1 and F 0 2 are both
supposed to be in VLAN 40 but F 0 2 is
in VLAN 50 let's move f02 to the correct
VLAN and see if that solves the problem
of VLAN 40 connectivity call 50
interface f0 to
switch port access VLAN 40 exit also
let's delete VLAN 50 no VLAN 50 do show
VLAN brief there we go let's see if that
solved our VLAN 40 connectivity problem
I'll ping from PC 3 to pc 4 ping 1000
dot 4 ok it works now that's not the
problem we were focusing on but we
solved it let's go on to switch 3 now an
able show VLAN brief ok I think the
problem here is pretty clear
VLANs 10 20 and 30 don't exist show run
the interfaces are assigned to the
correct VLANs but the VLANs must have
been deleted afterward let's create the
VLANs again coffee tea VLAN 10 we can't
create VLANs because we are a VIP client
so that suggests the real problem is
with VTP let's check do show VTP status
there's a problem switch 3 is in VTP
domain ccnp it's supposed to be CCNA
let's change that VTP domain CCNA do
show VTP status ok now we're back in the
correct domain let's check if our VLANs
are back do show VLAN brief there they
are
ok so that probably solved the remaining
problems let's try to ping within the
same VLANs again I'll ping from pc1 to
pc2 1000 5
okay it works this time now let's try in
VLAN 20 I'll ping from PC 8 to PC 9 ping
1000 9 okay no problems there now
and finally VLAN 30 I'll pin from PC 6
to PC 7 pin 1000 7 ok now it works we
have fixed the errors and achieved
connectivity in the network that's all
for this lab thank you for watching I
hope this lab and video have been
helpful for you please subscribe for
future labs like this which will be
released weekly if you have requests for
any specific labs let me know in the
comment section if you want to support
my channel
I accept Bitcoin and etherium donations
via the addresses in the description I
am also a brave verified publisher and
accept bat or basic attention token
donations in the brave browser