0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet racer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this in this
lab we will troubleshoot the topology we
configured in the previous lab several
miss configurations are preventing our
ether channels from operating as
intended
let's troubleshoot the errors and fix
them first let's take a look at switch 1
enable show ether channel summary so we
have port channel 1 configured and it's
layer 2 however it is down as this D
indicates the eye next to the interfaces
indicates standalone meaning they aren't
properly paired with interfaces on
switch 2 to make the ether channel
however you should be able to spot the
problem here the ether channel between
switch 1 and switch 2 is supposed to be
using pagp not LACP that could be why
switch 1 and switch 2 aren't
successfully forming either channel
let's change that conf t interface range
f 0 1 through 4 no channel group 1 also
just to be safe I'll delete the port
channel interface as well no interface
po1 okay let's reconfigure that
interface range F 0 1 through 4 channel
Group 1 mode desirable do show ether
channel summary ok our port channel is
working however F 0 1 is down let's see
what's up on switch to enable show ether
channel summary F 0 4 which is connected
to switch ones F 0 1 is down as well
remember in the previous video I said
port speed duplex etc had to match for
the ether channel to work
when one interface isn't properly
joining the port channel one of those
things could be the problem
show interface f0 for full duplex 10
megabits per second
let's check other interfaces show
interface f03 full duplex a hundred
megabits per second show interface f0 to
again 100 megabits per second show
interface F 0 1 100 megabits per second
let's also quickly check switch once F 0
1 interface do show interface F 0 1
again 100 megabits per second there's a
problem the other interfaces are all
using a speed of 100 megabits per second
let's adjust f0 for is speed to the same
compte interface f0 for speed 100 do
show ether channel summary there we go
all interfaces now have the PFLAG beside
them meaning import channel however
notice port channel 1 the ether channel
with switch 3 is down gig 0 1 and gig 0
2 don't show up here I'll add them
quickly interface range G 0 1 2 2
channel Group 1 mode on do show ether
channel summary looks like it's up now
let's check on switch 3 enable show
ether channel summary look at poor
channel 1 it has the flags s and u s
means layer 2 that's not correct it's
supposed to be layer 3 it's showing you
4 in use here but on switch to its at
layer 3 down show IP interface g0 1 show
IP interface g0 to notice both
interfaces state
internet protocol processing disabled
that means the interface is our layer to
not layer three and thus the port
channel is layer two as well
show run indeed the gig zero one and
gigs zero two interfaces do not have
that no switch port command configured
let's configure it
coffee tea interface range G zero one
two two
no switch port notice the command is
rejected switch three is already
configured for a layer two ether channel
let's undo that configuration and then
redo it no channel Group one no
interface po1 interface range G zero one
two two no switch port channel Group one
mode on all so let's give it an IP
address interface po1 IP address 2300 to
255.255.255.0 do show ether channel
summary looks good here it's layer three
now let's check once more on switch to
do show ether channel summary ok it
looks good here let's do one last check
do ping 2300 to okay it looks good we
can ping switch threes end of the ether
channel now let's go back to switch 3
notice the port channel with switch for
is down all of the interfaces have the
standalone flag let's take a look at the
configuration do show run channel group
2 mode passive ok now let's look at
switch for enable show ether channel
summary same thing here show run
okay here's our problem both switches
are in LACP passive mode passive mode
and passive mode won't form an ether
channel at least one side has to be
active
let's make switch for active and see if
that solves the problem compte interface
range F 0 1 through 4 channel Group 1
mode active do show ether channel
summary there we go the port channel is
up and all interfaces have the import
channel flag let's confirm on switch 3
as well do show ether channel summary
okay looks good we have fixed all of the
problems with our ether channels that's
all for this lab thank you for watching
I hope this lab and video have been
helpful for you please subscribe for
future labs like this which will be
released weekly if you have requests for
any specific labs let me know in the
comments section if you want to support
my channel I accept Bitcoin and etherium
donations via the addresses in the
description I am also a brave verified
publisher and accept bat or basic
attention token donations in the brave
browser