0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this in this
lab we will troubleshoot inter VLAN
routing in these 2 small networks which
we just configured in the previous lab I
have made one miss configuration on each
networking device see if you can find
and fix the errors first let's test the
network of PC one switch 1 and PC 2 I'll
try a ping from PC 1 in VLAN 10 to PC 2
in VLAN 20 ping 1002 10
it fails let's investigate on switch one
enable show IP interface brief looks
like the VLAN 10 and VLAN 20 interfaces
have the correct IP addresses configured
show VLAN brief here's our problem
the fastethernet 0/1 interface to which
pc one is connected has been placed in
v-line 11 not VLAN 10
let's put f01 into the correct VLAN and
see if that solves our issue coffee/tea
interface f01 switch port access VLAN 10
I'll delete VLAN 11 also since we're not
using it exit no VLAN 11 do show VLAN
brief ok
our VLAN configuration looks good let's
try that ping from pc1 again ping 1002
10 this time the ping is successful so
we have fixed the issue on this network
now let's test the issue on the next
network I'll try to ping from PC 3 in
VLAN 30 to pc 4 in VLAN 40 ping 1004 10
the ping is not successful so let's find
the issues there should be one issue on
our two and one issue on switch to
according to the lab instructions I'll
investigate on our two first enable
there could be a few problems here like
incorrect IP addresses or encapsulation
dot1q configurations on the sub
interfaces I'll use show running config
this time so run our interface Gigabit
Ethernet 0 0 is not shutdown and 2 sub
interfaces are configured they are
assigned to the proper VLANs 30 and 40
however look at the IP address on the
dot 30 sub-interface the VLAN 30 subnet
is 10030 / 24 so we should fix that
Koff t interface g0 0.30 IP address 1003
1 255 255 255 0 do show IP interface
brief ok now it has the correct IP
address so we fixed the issue on r2
let's go to switch to next enable so the
correct configuration on switch 2 should
be f01 connected to pc 3 in VLAN 30 and
f0 to connected to pc 4 in VLAN 40 and
g0 one connected to r2 should be a trunk
let's check show VLAN brief fast
ethernet 0 1 & 0 2 are in the correct
VLANs show interfaces trunk however
nothing appears with the show interfaces
trunk command show run
there's our problem Gigabit Ethernet 0 1
is configured as an access port actually
in the previous show VLAN brief command
you could see it in VLAN 1 that means it
won't pass data from either VLAN 30 or
VLAN 40
let's properly configure it as a trunk
compte interface g0 1 switch port mode
trunk do show interfaces trunk ok now we
can see the gig 0 1 interface is a trunk
and let's check that VLAN configuration
once more do show VLAN brief it is also
no longer listed in VLAN 1 so our inter
VLAN routing in this network should be
properly configured let's try that ping
again once more from PC 3 to PC for ping
1004 10
okay this time the ping works
we have successfully fixed the problems
that's all for this lab thank you for
watching I hope this lab and video have
been helpful for you please subscribe
for future labs like this which will be
released weekly if you have requests for
any specific labs let me know in the
comments section if you want to support
my channel I accept the Bitcoin and
aetherium donations via the addresses in
the description I am also a great
verified publisher and accept bat or
basic attention token donations in the
brave browser