0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this in this
lab we will troubleshoot a multi area
OSPF network in which neighbor
relationships aren't properly forming
and roads that should be advertised are
not let's get started first let's go on
our one enable show IP ospf neighbor
our one has become OSPF neighbors with
our two but not our four show IP
protocols
looks like our ones interfaces are in
the proper areas as you can see they're
both in area one
however you may notice one problem here
on our one our one isn't advertising
it's loopback of 1.1.11 if I go on our -
it won't appear in the routing table
enable show IP route indeed it's
receiving the 10.14 0 but not 1.1 1.1
from our one let's fix that on our one
coffee tea router OSPF one network 1.1.1
100 200 area 1 also the loopback should
be a passive interface passive interface
l0 ok now let's check again on our to
show IP route
there it is so we fix our problem on our
one let's go on our four and see what's
the issue
enable show IP ospf neighbors indeed our
four has no OSPF neighbors show IP
protocols can you spot the problem our
4s g00 interface is a passive interface
this means it won't form neighbor
relationships on that interface it will
still advertise the network on that
interface although in this case it has
no neighbors to advertise it to let's
fix that conf T router OSPF one no
passive interface G zero zero now r1 and
r4 should be trying to form an OSPF
neighbor relationship I'll wait a few
seconds
okay now let's confirm with a show
command do show IP ospf neighbor
there it is r1 and r4 are OSPF neighbors
next let's check out our to show IP ospf
neighbors it's formed a relationship
with r1 but not r3 show IP protocols I
don't see any problems here 10.12 da da
o is in area 1 and 10.20 300 and the
loopback interface are in area 0 show IP
interface brief here's our issue it's
not an OSPF configuration issue the f20
interface itself is administratively
down show run there you can see it has
the shutdown command configured compte
interface f2 0 no shutdown ok now let's
see if it's forming a OSPF neighbor ship
with r3 do show IP ospf neighbor that's
odd
r2 still isn't forming an OSPF
relationship with r3
well we fix the issue here on r2 so
let's go on r3 enable show IP ospf
neighbor so r3 has 1 OSPF neighbor r5
show IP protocols can you spot the issue
on r3
it's 10.20 300 network should be in area
0 not area 2 coughed T router OSPF one
network 10.23 oh-oh-oh-oh-oh 255 area 0
ok now let's wait a few seconds
okay and now let's check and see if it's
forming a SPF neighbor ship with our to
do show IP ospf neighbor okay there it
is r2 and r3 are now OSPF neighbors
finally let's see what's wrong on r5 an
able show IP ospf neighbor so r5 has
successfully become OSPF neighbors with
r3 however in the lab instructions it
says that the ropes r5 is receiving
aren't being properly summarized show IP
route indeed r5 should be receiving a
10000 / 8 summary but it's receiving
individual network routes instead so
there's probably another issue on r3
let's go back let's see how or if r3 is
summarizing do show run area to range
10000 to 5500 there's the problem it's
an easy mistake to make because you want
to advertise the summary to area 2 you
might want to use the area to range
command however the correct answer is
area 0 range I'll copy this command and
then paste it here and cancel it with no
now let's put in the correct command
area 0 range
10000 255 0 0 0 remember the area range
command uses a regular mask not a
wildcard mask ok let's go back to our 5
and see if it's receiving the summary
read show IP route okay there it is we
have successfully fixed the problems
that's all for this lab
thank you for watching I hope this lab
and video have been helpful for you
please subscribe for future labs like
this which will be released weekly if
you have requests for any specific labs
let me know in the comment section if
you want to support my channel I accept
Bitcoin and etherium donations via the
addresses in the description I am also a
brave verified publisher and accept bat
or basic attention token donations in
the brave browser