0.0
welcome to this free gns3 practice lab
for the CCNA once again for this video I
will be using gns3 not packet tracer
packet tracer is great but there are
many things which it doesn't support
such as multi-link PPP from the previous
lab and pppoe which we will configure in
this lab you can download the gns3 file
from the link in the description I will
also include the name of the iOS image
file I used however I cannot legally
give you the file itself if you need
help getting gns3 setup please look
around on google or youtube david bumble
for example has many videos on gns3
setup in this lab we will configure
pppoe which stands for point-to-point
protocol over Ethernet the original PPP
which we have been configuring so far
was used on serial interfaces pppoe
however allows us to encapsulate PPP
into Ethernet frames the service
provider routers have been
pre-configured so let's configure the to
client routers r1 and r2 to use pppoe
for their connections to the service
provider let's get started I'll
configure r1 first compte we are
instructed to configure pppoe with
two-way PAP authentication SP r1 is
already configured and is using a host
name of packet and a password of tracer
to authenticate so let's configure that
user account on r1 user name packet
password tracer okay now to configure
pppoe we need to configure a dialer
interface first interface dialer one
this is a logical interface which we
will later bind to the physical
interface g00 first we have to lower the
MTU
the maximum transmission unit from 1500
to 1492 this is because pppoe adds
another 8 byte header so MTU 1492
then set the encapsulation encapsulation
PPP next the IP address the client r1
will negotiate its IP address with SP r1
with this command IP address negotiated
next let's enable PAP authentication PPP
authentication PAP then send the
username and password as indicated in
the topology diagram PPP PAP sent
username Cisco password CCNA now the
last step is to assign this to dialer
pool 1 which we will use later to link
it to the physical interface dialer pool
1 is the command let's check do show run
interface dialer 1
there's the configuration MTU 1492 IP
address negotiated encapsulation PPP
dialer pool 1 and our PAP authentication
ok that's all for the dialer interface
now let's link it to G 0 0 interface G 0
0 there's just one command we need here
pppoe client dial pool number 1 ok let's
enable the interface no shutdown end
let's check the IP address the interface
received from the service provider show
IP interface brief it's 102 on the
dialer interface but what's this virtual
access 1 entered
well it was automatically created
basically the dialer interface provides
layer 3 information and the virtual
access interface provides layer 2
information don't worry too much about
the details about how it works as long
as you can configure it you should be
okay let's try to ping the service
provider ping 100 0.1 okay looks good
next let's configure our - the only
difference will be chap authentication
instead of path golf tee
I'll make the user account remember the
username must be the host name of the
other router SP r2 and the password must
be the same for both routers CCNA in
this case so user name SPR - password
CCNA next let's configure the dialer
interface interface dialer 1 MTU 1492
encapsulation PPP IP address negotiated
PPP authentication chap okay and finally
dialer pool 1
now let's link it to the physical
interface interface g00 pppoe client
dial pool number 1 no shutdown end ok so
let's see what IP address the dialer
interface got from SPR to show IP
interface brief 202 this time and again
notice the virtual access 1 interface
was created as well here's one more
thing show interface dialer one notice
here it says bound to and then indicates
the virtual access 1 interface ok let's
try a ping
ping 200 oh you won great it works now
like in the previous lab I'll make
static default routes pointing to the
service provider and then try to ping
from r1 to r2 call 40 IP route
oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh 200 200 oh oh one do
show IP route there it is next on r1
coughed e IP route
oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh 101 do show
IP route there's the default route okay
let's try that ping to our to do ping
202 it works
our pppoe configuration was successful
that's all for this lab thank you for
watching I hope this lab and video have
been helpful for you please subscribe
for future labs like this which will be
released weekly if you have requests for
any specific labs let me know in the
comment section if you want to support
my channel I accept Bitcoin and etherium
donations via the addresses in the
description I am also a brave verified
publisher and accept bat or basic
attention token donations in the brave
browser