0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this and
share these videos with anyone else
studying for the CCNA in this lab we
will configure a GRE tunnel gr e stands
for a generic routing encapsulation r1
and r2 are not directly connected
however we can use GRE to create a
virtual tunnel between them which will
enable them to behave as if they are
directly connected and their tunnel
interfaces will have IP addresses from
the same network 192.168.1.0 / 30 we
will then configure a IG RP on these
interfaces so they can learn about each
other's internal networks the
configuration is quite simple so let's
get started I'll start on r1 first
enable conf t we have to make a tunnel
interface on the router this isn't a
physical interface on the device but a
logical interface to which we will
assign an IP address you can type
interface tunnel 0 or the fast and easy
way as interface t0 let's assign an IP
address to it IP address 192.168.1.1 255
dot 255 dot 255 dot 255 @ UNASUR s--
which interface do you think will be the
source in this case it's the s 0 0 0
interface because that's the interface
we will actually be using to reach r2
via the service provider network so
tunnel source s 0 0 0
next to the tunnel destination tunnel
destination now what IP address do you
think is correct here
it's the IP address on r2 s s0 0 0
interface the one facing the service
provider so 200 oh oh - that's all there
is to it now let's go on our to enable
compte interface tunnel 0 IP address
192.168.1.1 fifty five to fifty five to
five to the source and destination will
be the opposite of our ones
configuration the source will be R to s
s 0 0 0 interface and the destination R
1 s s 0 0 0 interface tunnel source s 0
0 0 tunnel destination 100 odo - ok
that's all there is to configuring the
tunnel
however I've missed one very important
thing do show IP route Artoo's tunnel
destination is 100 oh oh - but it has no
idea how to get there if I try to ping
our one side of the tunnel it will fail
do ping 192.168.1.1 no response let's
configure a static default route via SPR
to exit IP route
oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh 201 now we
have to do the same on our one exit IP
route
oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh
101 keep in mind it doesn't have to be a
default route the important thing is
that the routers can reach the IP
addresses configured as the tunnel
destination okay now r1 and r2 can reach
each other let's try to ping our two
side of the tunnel from here on r1 do
ping 192.168.1.2 okay it works this time
let's check the interface do show IP
interface brief our tunnel interface is
up and up do show interface tunnel zero
there's the tunnel source and
destination we configured and you can
see the tunnel protocol is gr e being
transported over IP
ok now let's configure AI GRP over the
tunnel router ERP and I'll use an a s
number of 100 so I want to advertise the
inside network so Network 1000 100 200
255 I used the exact wildcard mask but
remember it's not always needed for EIG
RP just network 10000 would have
activated AI GRP on the G 0 0 interface
as well
okay now let's activate di GRP on the
tunnel network 192.168.1.0 again I'll
use the exact wildcard mask
0:03 ok let's do the same on our two
rotary IG RP 100 Network 1002
oh-oh-oh-oh 255 network 192.168.1.0 oh
oh oh 3 immediately we get a message
saying we have a new AI GRP adjacency Oh
where the tunnel interface and the
neighbor address is our ones tunnel
address 192.168.1.1 do show IP route
look are two learned our ones 1001 0/24
network let's try a ping from PC to 2 PC
one ping 1001 100
okay it works our GRE tunnel is up and
working and we successfully configured a
IG RP over the tunnel to share the
inside networks that's all for this lab
thank you for watching I hope this lab
and video have been helpful for you
please subscribe for future labs like
this which will be released weekly if
you have requests for any specific labs
let me know in the comment section if
you want to support my channel I accept
Bitcoin and aetherium donations via the
addresses in the description I am also a
brave verified publisher and accept bat
or basic attention token donations in
the brave browser