0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this and
share these videos with anyone else
studying for the CCNA in this lab we
will troubleshoot the GRE tunnel
configuration from the previous lab the
GRE tunnel should be working with E I gr
P over it so pc1 & pc2 can reach each
other there are two misconfigurations on
each router let's get started I'll go on
r1 first enable show IP interface brief
the tunnel interface is up down so it's
not working notice the error message
we're getting temporarily disabled due
to recursive routing this is a common
problem in tunnel configuration show
interface tunnel 0 tunnel source of
serial zero zero zero is okay but look
at the destination the destination has
to be the address of the physical
interface which is at the other end of
the tunnel not the tunnels address
itself that's what's causing the
recursive routing error message call T
interface tunnel zero tunnel destination
200 oh oh - okay that should end the
error messages let's check the AIG RP
configuration here to do show IP
protocols routing for networks 1001 0/24
and 100 0 0 / 30 there's a problem
we want to activate a idrp on the G zero
zero interface which we are and the
tunnel interface 100 euro / 30 which is
the s zero zero zero interface isn't the
tunnel interface it's the tunnel source
let's change that router ew g RP 100 no
network 100 oh oh oh oh oh three network
192.168.1.0 oh oh oh three end ok we've
solved two problems here on our one
however there are still problems on our
two so our tunnel won't be working yet
let's go on our to enable I'll quickly
check the EIG RP configuration here on
our to show IP protocols
EW GFP is activated for 1002 0/24 which
is G 0 0 and 192.168.1.0 / 30 which is
the tunnel interface so the AI g RP
configuration looks good let's check the
tunnel show interface Tunnel zero the
tunnel destination is correct but the
source isn't the tunnel source is the
inside interface Gigabit Ethernet 0 0
but it should be the interface connected
to the service provider serial 0 0 0
Koff t interface tunnel 0 tunnel source
s 0 0 0 do show IP interface brief the
tunnel still isn't up let's check one
other important thing do show IP route
there is no route allowing us to reach
the tunnel destination of 100 oh oh -
remember the tunnel destination address
must be reachable let's configure a
static default route pointing to the
service provider exit IP route oh oh oh
oh oh oh oh oh 201 do show IP interface
brief okay looks like it's up now let's
try to ping the other end do ping
192.168.1.1 okay it's working now
now are we getting the EIG our peer out
to our ones internal network do show IP
route there it is 1001 Oh finally let's
try a ping from PC to 2 PC one ting 1001
dot 100
okay our ping worked we have solved the
issues and fixed the GRE tunnel that's
all for this lab thank you for watching
I hope this lab and video have been
helpful for you please subscribe for
future labs like this which will be
released weekly if you have requests for
any specific labs let me know in the
comment section if you want to support
my channel I accept Bitcoin and
aetherium donations via the addresses in
the description I am also a brave
verified publisher and accept bat or
basic attention token donations in the
brave browser