0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this and
share these videos with anyone else
studying for the CCNA in this lab we
will troubleshoot bgp using the same
network we configured in the previous
lab there are three misconfigurations
all on our one let's get started enable
our one is displaying lots of messages
regarding OSPF and BGP let's focus on
this BGP one first peer in wrong a s
let's investigate here show IP BGP
summary notice the bgp router ID of one
1.1.1 taken from the loopback interface
just like in Eid RP and OSPF look down
at our neighbor here 100 0:01 is spr one
however the AS IS 6500 which is why r1
is displaying the peer in wrong a s
message SP r 1 is actually in a s 65,000
one show IP BGP neighbor up here by the
top you can see BGP state equals idle
that's the initial BGP state and if a
wrong peer a s is configured BGP won't
proceed further than this state let's
fix it
coffee tea router bgp 65,000 neighbor
101 remote a s 65 thousand won
immediately we get a message saying the
neighbor is up do show IP BGP neighbour
now the state is established that's what
we want
however we keep getting these OSPF
messages something's up there the
message clearly tells us what's up
actually mismatch area ID do show IP
route we aren't getting any OSPF routes
because of the area ID mismatch do show
IP protocols there's the problem
oh SPF is activated on all interfaces in
area 1 it should be area 0 I'll remove
the current network statement and fix it
router OSPF 1 no network
oh-oh-oh-oh 255 255 dot 255 dot 255 area
1 Network
oh-oh-oh-oh 255 dot 255 dot 255 dot 255
area 0 ok that should fix our OSPF
problem although this was an OSPF
problem it's relevant to BGP because the
OSPF problem was causing routes not to
appear in our ones route table which
affects BGP there should still be one
more issue on our one but I'll head to
r2 and test if we can reach the external
server at 1501 enable pin 1500 1
nope the ping still fail so let's go
back to our one
our one should be advertising at 1000s
516 summary to the service provider
let's check if it's in the rev table on
our one do show IP route there it is
10000 slash 16 let's check the BGP table
show IP BGP however it doesn't show up
in the BGP table
let's check the running config do show
run there's the problem the 10000
network is configured with a slash 8
mask although it doesn't appear here
because it defaults to the class a
boundary but remember BGP requires an
exact match in the router table let's
fix that Network statement router bgp
65,000 no network 10000 Network 10000
mask 255.255.255.0 dot 1 ok the ping
works now we've successfully solved the
problems on the network that's all for
this lab thank you for watching I hope
this lab and video have been helpful for
you please subscribe for future labs
like this which will be released weekly
if you have requests for any specific
labs let me know in the comment section
if you want to support my channel I
accept Bitcoin and aetherium donations
via the addresses in the description I
am also a brave verified publisher and
accept bat or basic attention token
donations in the brave browser