0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this and
share these videos with anyone else
studying for the CCNA in this lab we
will troubleshoot some problems with ACL
configurations this is the same topology
as the previous lab with the same ACLs
except I have made three miss
configurations there are four ACLs one
is correct and the other three have
mistakes let's get started so the first
ACL should prevent pc4 from accessing
the 10440 / 24 network let's see if pc4
can ping server one which is in the
10.40 network ping 10.4 for 100
looks like pc4 is able to reach server
one so there must be a miss
configuration I applied the ACL on r2 so
let's check there enable show access
lists okay
there's the issue the order of
statements in the ACL is wrong because
the permit any statement is first all
traffic is allowed I have to put the
deny host before the permit any so 10.22
12 will be denied and then all other
traffic will be allowed I'll remove the
ACL and then redo it coughed II know
access list one access list one deny
host 10 to 212 access list one permit
any ok let's try that ping again from PC
for pink tent 4.4.1 hundred ok now we
get the destination host unreachable
message that's good can other hosts
reach server one
I'll try from PC three content for 4.1
hundred
okay it's working now let's move on to
the next ACL pc5 shouldn't be able to
access the 2001 db8 22 22 / 64 network
let's try to ping from PC 5 to server to
ping 2001 DB 8 22 22 double colon 100 ok
the ping works
so there's another miss configuration
here I applied the ACL on our one
so let's investigate enable show access
lists here's the access list it looks
good
denying from PC 5 to the correct subnet
maybe it isn't applied correctly show
ipv6 interface g0 to outgoing access
list g0 - in there's the problem the ACL
should be inbound not outbound or
outgoing because traffic from PC 5 to
the 2001 DB 8 2222 subnet will be
entering the g0 to interface not exiting
the return traffic coming back from
server to has the source and destination
IP addresses reversed so the ACL lets
them by let's reapply the ACL inbound
compte interface g0 - no ipv6 traffic
filter g0 - in out ipv6 traffic filter
g0 - in in ok let's try that ping again
paying 2001 DB 8 20 - 20 to 100 ok now
we get the destination host unreachable
message from r1
let's test the next ACL pc3 shouldn't be
able to communicate with PC one let's
try a ping from pc 3 2 pc 1 ping 10 1 1
11 destination host unreachable looks
good now pc 4 should be able to reach pc
1 let's test it out ping 10.11 11 ok the
ping is successful
so this ACL seems to be functioning
properly now our final ACL should allow
pc 6 to telnet to r2 but not other ipv6
hosts like PC 5 let's try to tell net
from PC 6 telnet 2001 DB 8 12 12 double
colon - looks good I'll enter the
password of CCNA okay we're in exit so
that seems fine but pc v shouldn't be
able to tell met to our - let's try to
tell net from PC 5 telnet 2001 DB 8 12
12 double colon - okay here's the
problem PC 5 is also able to tell net to
r2 let's investigate on our to do show
access lists
permit TCP host with the IP address of
PC 6ne equals telnet that looks good
so let's check how the ACL is applied do
show run okay there's the issue the ACL
is applied to the console line not the
vty lines which are used for telnet
let's remove and then reapply it let me
copy the command first and then let's
remove it line console 0 I'll paste it
here and then cancel it with no okay now
let's reapply it line vty 0 15 and now
I'll paste it here once more ok let's
test again
I'll tell net from PC 5 telnet 2001 DB 8
12 12 - good it doesn't work this time
but can PC 6 still telnet let's try
telnet 2001 DB 8 12 12 - hazard CCNA ok
all of our ACLs are working now that's
all for this lab thank you for watching
I hope this lab and video have been
helpful for you please subscribe for
future labs like this which will be
released weekly if you have requests for
any specific labs let me know in the
comment section if you want to support
my channel I accept Bitcoin and
aetherium donations via the addresses in
the description I am also a brave
verified publisher and accept bat or
basic attention token donations in the
brave browser