0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this and
share these videos with anyone else
studying for the CCNA in this lab we
will configure span which stands for
switched port analyzer span copies the
traffic from a particular interface and
sends it to another interface which
typically leads to a monitoring server
to monitor and analyze the traffic
passing through the monitored interface
packet tracer doesn't include an actual
monitoring server but will use a cool
feature of packet tracer the simulation
mode to verify that our configurations
are working let's get started okay the
first step is to simply ping from PC 2
to PC 1 this is just to make sure PC 2
completes the ARP process you may have
noticed in these labs that the first
ping often fails that is because of the
art process not finishing before the
ping times out so let's do that ping
ping 1001 10
okay as you can see the first ping fails
but then after pc2 learns the MAC
address of its default gateway the
following pings succeed now let's switch
to simulation mode which is here in the
bottom right this useful feature lets us
trace the path of traffic and analyze it
at different points in its path okay now
let's ping again ping 1001 10 here you
can see the ICMP packet at PC 2 then I
click Next and it is sent to switch to
then R 2 R 1 switch 1 and arrives at PC
1 PC 1 then sends the reply back to
switch 1 R 1 R 2 switch 2 and then it
arrives at the destination PC 2 if I
keep clicking here you can see other
traffic being sent including spanning
tree B PDUs from the switches EA GRP
hello packets between the routers and
the other pings sent from PC to does PC
1 ok let's return to real-time mode so
we confirm that the pings traveled from
PC to in a straight path to PC 1 no ICMP
packets were sent to server 1 now let's
configure switch 1 to monitor the input
and output traffic on its G 0 1
interface and send it to a server 1 I'll
hop on switch 1 now enable conf T span
is configured right here at global
configuration mode with the monitor
command then type session and give it a
number I'll sell you one next we specify
the source or destination the order
doesn't matter let's do this source now
there are multiple types of span but for
the CCNA you just have to do local span
which means from one interface on the
switch to another so the source will be
interface g0 one
then finally I will specify both to
monitor both incoming and outgoing
traffic on the interface you could
instead specify Rx for ingress or
incoming traffic or TX for egress or
outgoing traffic okay next let's specify
the destination interface which will be
g0 - because it's connected to server 1
monitor session one destination
interface g0 - okay that's all there is
to configuring local span it's really
quite simple
now let's switch to simulation mode once
more and ping from PC - to PC one and
will confirm that copies of the traffic
are being sent to server one ping 1001
1000 goes to switch 2 R 2 R 1 switch 1
and now as you can see it's sent to both
PC 1 and server one because switch 1
copied the ICMP packet that came in
honest g0 on interface and sent it to
server 1 as well
notice the red X on server 1 that's
because server 1 discarded the packet in
a real situation where server 1 is an
actual monitoring server this would not
happen
ok next PC 1 sends the reply to switch 1
and then the reply is forwarded to r1
and once again it is also sent to server
one this time switch one copied the ICMP
packet being sent out of the g0 one
interface because we configured the both
statement when we configured span both
packets received on and transmitted from
the interface will be copied and sent to
server 1 in this lab we configured span
to monitor traffic on a switch interface
the configuration is quite simple so
please try it out and learn it for your
exam that's all for this lab
thank you for watching I hope this lab
and video have been helpful for you
please subscribe for future labs like
this which will be released weekly if
you have requests for any specific labs
let me know in the comment section if
you want to support my channel I accept
cryptocurrency donations via the
addresses in the description I am also a
brave verified publisher and accept bat
or basic attention token donations in
the brave browser