0.0
welcome to this free gns3 lab for the
CCNA once again because packet tracer
doesn't support all of the features
necessary for CCNA studies I have chosen
to do this lab in gns3 rather than just
skip the topic you can download the lab
file from the link in the description
however you will also need the Cisco IOS
image to use for these routers I will
include the name of the iOS image I used
in the description however I cannot
legally distribute the file itself if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me if you have my patreon or
the cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this and
share these videos with anyone else
studying for the CCNA in this short lab
we will look at IP SLA SLA stands for
service level agreement what is an SLA
it's an agreement between a service
provider and a client for example a
guarantee of latency or internet speed
you can configure various IP SLA
operations in Cisco IOS however for the
CCNA you just have to be familiar with
the ICMP echo operation aka ping the
ICMP echo operation sends pings at
regular intervals and keeps a count of
how many succeed and how many fail let's
get started let's hop on our one I will
configure the ICMP echo operation to
send pings to our two coughed II use the
following command IP SLA followed by the
operation number you can configure
multiple IP SLA operations on the same
device so a number is necessary to
identify them I'll use one and then
there are no more options now I'm in IP
SLA configuration mode
let's check the options as you can see
there are various kinds of operations
that we can use let's configure an ICM
a cooperation and then enter the
destination address of 1200 - okay now
I'm brought into IPS la Echo
configuration mode again there are
plenty of options here but let's just
specify the frequency which is how often
the pings will be sent to our - the
instructions say to use a frequency of
five so frequency five that's it now we
have to schedule the operation that is
done in global configuration mode exit
once again the command starts with IP
SLA this time followed by schedule and
the operation number one next let's
specify the start time we could
configure it to start after ten minutes
for example or start at a specific time
like 12 o'clock for example but let's
schedule it to start now next let's
specify the life which is how long we
want the operation to continue the
instructions say to schedule it to
continue until manually stopped so let's
use the forever option r1 will continue
sending pings forever until we remove
that configuration okay that's all there
is to the configuration there are two
main parts configuring the operation and
scheduling the operation let's confirm
our configuration exit show IP SLA
configuration there is entry number one
it's type is ICMP echo and there's the
target of 1200 - also a frequency of
five start time already passed since we
configure its start time now and also
life forever now let's check the IP SLA
statistics to see how many things were
successful show IP SLA status
dicks there's the number of successes
and if I wait for a few seconds and then
enter the command again the number
should increase show IP SLA statistics
there you can see that the number has
increased because pings are being sent
every five seconds
also notice the latest RTT appear that's
the latest round-trip time which is how
long the ping took to go to r2 and come
back
now let's shut down our twos g00
interface and then the number of
failures should start increasing compte
interface g00 shutdown now let's go back
on our one i'll wait 10 seconds or so to
let a few pings be sent
okay let's check show IP SLA statistics
as you can see the number of failures
has started increasing and the latest
RTT indicates no connection busy or time
out let's enable our 2's g00 interface
now no shutdown okay now all wait 10
seconds or so again to let a few more
pings be sent from r1 to r2
okay now let's check the IP SLA
statistics once more on our one the
number of successes should have
increased and we should see a normal
latest RTT value show IP SLA statistics
there we go the pings are working again
that's all for this lab thank you for
watching I hope this lab and video have
been helpful for you there are only a
few more labs left in my CCNA series but
please subscribe to catch my next
project if you want to support my
channel I accept cryptocurrency
donations via the addresses in the
description I am also a brave verified
publisher and accept bat or basic
attention token donations in the brave
browser