0.0
welcome to this free CCNA packet tracer
practice lab you can download the lab
file from the link in the description if
you like these labs please consider
supporting me via my patreon or the
cryptocurrency options in the
description also please subscribe to the
channel for more labs like this and
share these videos with anyone else
studying for the CCNA this configuration
lab and the next troubleshooting lab
would be the last labs in my series of
labs for the CCNA I was expecting to
finish them by the end of the year but
with the approaching changes to a Cisco
certifications coming in February next
year I wanted to finish these soon so
you have plenty of time to practice them
and get your CCNA before the changes so
I've managed to put out a video almost
every day for over a month and finally
we're at the end stay tuned for my next
project which I'm really excited about
anyway this isn't the last video the
next one is so let's get started first I
want to mention just one thing about the
lab normally private IP addresses can't
be routed over the Internet in my NAT
labs I configured ACLs to simulate that
however I haven't done so in this lab so
you won't have to use NAT to send
traffic over the Internet cloud which is
here in the middle
in this review lab we will configure BGP
OSPF EIGRP GRE and PPP there are two
enterprises enterprise a and Enterprise
B which are connecting to the same
Internet service provider Enterprise a
uses OSPF and wants to configure a GRE
tunnel between two branches Enterprise a
also uses static routing over fibre
Ethernet to connect to the internet
rather than BGP Enterprise B uses AI GRP
in its internal network connecting to
the ISP with BGP over a PPP serial
connection let's configure Enterprise a
first the first step is simple that is
to configure
static roads to the internet on r1 and
r2 often BGP isn't necessary and static
routes are sufficient for Internet
connectivity for enterprise B's
connection to a simple static Reb would
work but they want to use BGP anyway
let's configure the static route on r1
first for enterprise a enable compte IP
route oh-oh-oh-oh oh-oh-oh-oh
then i can specify the outgoing
interface or the next hop IP address it
doesn't really matter which i'll use the
interface g zero zero zero that's it
let's do the same on our to enable
compte IP route
oh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh Dakota Oh G zero zero
zero that's it next let's configure a
GRE tunnel from r1 to r2 which is a
logical tunnel interface which will
allow them to behave as if they are
directly connected and share OSPF routes
even though traffic between them
actually passes through the service
provider network I'll start here on r2
let's make the interface interface
tunnel zero let's configure the source
and destination addresses these are the
actual physical interface addresses on
r2 and r1 tunnel source G zero zero zero
tunnel destination 203 o y1 and 3.2
which is the IP address of our ones G
zero zero zero interface now let's give
it an IP address from the 192.168 12/30
network as per the instructions IP
address 192.168.1.1 five five two five
two okay that's all
exit now let's configure our one side
interface tunnel zero tunnel source G
zero zero zero tunnel destination 203 o
y1 13.6 which is the IP address of our
two s G zero zero zero interface IP
address 192.168.1.1
255.255.255.0 it's it okay let's try to
ping from one end of the tunnel to the
other do ping 192.168 12.2
okay we can ping from one side of the
tunnel to the other finally let's
configure OSPF on r1 and r2 I'll start
here on our one router OSPF one remember
the OSPF process ID is locally
significant and doesn't have to match
between routers we should activate OSPF
on the g zero zero and tunnel zero
interfaces of r1 and r2 so here on our
one network 192.168.1.0 0.255 area zero
that's G zero zero and network
192.168.1.0 oh-oh-oh three area zero
that's tunnel zero now let's configure
r2 and see if they exchange OSPF routes
router OSPF one network 192.168.0 0.255
area zero network 192.168.1.0 three area
zero that's all that's necessary for a
simple OSPF configuration okay let's
wait for 10 seconds or so for them to
become neighbors and exchange routes
then I'll check the route table
okay let's check that routing table do
show IP route
there's the 192.168.1.0 slash 24 network
which are two learned from our one do
show IP ospf neighbor there's our one
and the neighbor state is full as
expected okay that's all for the
configuration of Enterprise a let's go
to enterprise be the first requirement
is to configure PPP with chap
authentication to connect to the ISP the
ISP side is already configured so let's
go on our three enable first let's just
confirm that we can't ping the ISP yet
ping two oh three oh one one three nine
okay it doesn't work coffee tea we're
going to use chap authentication so for
that we need to configure a user account
here on r3 which uses the hostname of
the remote host in this case ISP and a
password which is the same between the
two routers in this case CCNA so user
name is P password CCNA now let's
configure the interface interface s 0 0
0 I'm going to shut down the interface
as I configure it then enable it when
I'm done that can help the interface
come up quicker shutdown okay first set
the encapsulation encapsulation PPP then
set the authentication PPP
authentication chap that's all there is
to it no shutdown okay let's wait a few
seconds
okay and let's try a ping do ping 2 O 3
0 1 1 3 9
okay now the ping works next let's
configure a EIGRP on r3 and r4 I'll
start here on r3 router AIG RP 100
remember the EIG our pas number has to
be the same on routers for them to
become a EIGRP neighbors
now let's advertise these networks
network 203 o d11 38000 3 network
192.168.0 oh-oh-oh 255 network 192.168.0
oh-oh-oh 255 let's make our threes s 0 0
0 interface passive since no EIGRP
neighbors are connected to that
interface passive interface s0 0 0 now
let's configure our for enable call for
t router IG RP 100 network 192.168.0.0
255 network 192.168.0.0 255 ok let's
check if our 4 has learned ew g RP
routes from r3 do show IP route there we
go 192.168 300 our threes internal
network and 203 o 1 1 3 8 the internet
segment from r3 to ISP let's try a ping
from pc 4 to pc 3
now that our four knows the route to
192.168.0
ping 192.168.1 hundred okay the ping
works
finally let's configure ebgp on r3 to
connect to the internet rather than the
static road method we used on r1 and r2
note that Enterprise B uses BGP a s
65,000 and the ISP uses 65,000 won okay
let's get started
router bgp 65,000
now let's specify the neighbor neighbor
200-300 one one three nine remote a s
65,000 won also let's advertise our
internal networks network 192.168.0 mask
255.255.255.0
remember that bgp uses a standard
network mask not a wildcard mask network
192.168.0 mask 255.255.255.0 network
192.168.0 mask 255.255.255.0 okay that's
all for BGP now step four asks why PC
one can't ping PC for let's confirm and
try that ping from pc1 ping 192.168.1
hundred
indeed the ping fails we're given a hint
to look on our four so let's go on our
four what do you think would be the most
obvious issue how about no route to PC
one do show IP route as you can see our
four has no route to the 192.168.1.0
slash 24 network or any other network
beyond our three
usually I'd configure ibgp or route
redistribution into EIGRP but those are
more advanced topics let's use the
simplest solution a static route
pointing to our three exit IP route
oh-oh-oh-oh oh-oh-oh-oh 192.168.1 okay
that's it let's try that ping again from
pc1 ping 192.168.1 hundred
okay the pings work now in this lab we
configured BGP OSPF EIGRP
GRE and PPP some of the major topics of
the icnd2 exam that's all for this lab
thank you for watching I hope this lab
and video have been helpful for you
there is only one more lab left in my
CCNA series but please subscribe to
catch my next project if you want to
support my channel
I accept cryptocurrency donations via
the addresses in the description I am
also a brave verified publisher and
accept bat or basic attention token
donations in the brave browser