0.0
welcome back to another Inkscape
tutorial in this video we're going to be
looking at some more options for tools
that we have over here in the tool bar
in fact in the last video we only did
the selection tool and the draw
rectangle tool so I have the plus sign
and I'll zoom in here
use the scroll wheel to kind of pan up a
little bit so yeah we can draw a
rectangle and if you notice when we
first draw it something I didn't go over
we have these little white squares that
we can click on to control the size of
it before we get to the selection of we
can also control the size this way but
when we first drew it it creates these
options we have these two white squares
and then a white circle and this white
circle controls the roundness of the
corners of the rectangle which is pretty
cool so we can control that make it look
more like a in fact if we were to do
this and then bring it in we can make it
look almost like a circle almost give it
rounded corners to get to that option
and it sends us there by default when we
first draw the shape but if we double if
we click and then we click again we know
we get to the skew and the rotation but
if we click very quickly double click
then we get to that third option which
is these we have these different handles
on the corners where we can create
rounded corners and we can also resize
the shape that way so I show that
because we're gonna be playing with some
different shapes today and each shape
has different options when you get to
these white circles and squares these
handles do different things for
different shapes but these black handles
with the arrows they all behave the same
for every shape we draw so I'll show you
what I mean by that I'm gonna hit the
Delete key and delete both of these and
we're gonna come here to the circle tool
we're gonna draw a circle so or an oval
so I'll just drag and unclick and we
have this so we see we have these
handles up here we can change the height
of the circle and change the width of
the circle Oh
so see what I did there I actually drew
another blue circle a teeny tiny one
over top of this because my circle tool
was still selected and I'm barely missed
the
handle so I can see if I come here to
the selection tool this is what I drew
I'll drag it down here so I drew this I
have another circle now right here so to
get back to those options though I was
going to show you if we double click
very quickly we get to these different
handles where we can control different
things and this the most important ones
of the circle is this teeny little one
over here controls so that we can make
like a pacman style so here's how it
works if you're outside I have my left
mouse click or held in right now if
we're outside of the circle it'll create
this sort of like pie chart looking
thing where we can go all the way down
and create just a sliver we can come
here and create a pacman if I move my
cursor into the inside of the circle
it'll change and then we'll create sort
of like a Halfmoon type shape so there's
two different ways we can create a
partial circle we can do a partial like
this or we can do a partial like this
and it depends on where your mouse
cursor is so play with that and get
familiar with how that works there's a
lot of times with it will you'll want to
use a half circle and so you'll notice
there's no half circle tool instead you
just draw a circle and then control it
this way and then we come back to our
selection and we can change it we can
move it around we can still do like the
skew we can do the rotation the same way
it was click a second time to get to
rotation so this you know there's a time
you'll want to draw an object just like
this so that's how you do it and if we
ever want to make this a full circle if
we double-click very quickly always the
options for whatever for whatever tool
you whatever operation you're on with
that object the options for it will be
at the very top here by default and we
can click this full circle and it'll
complete the whole circle again or we
can move yeah that's basically what
we'll do and then that we can change the
size the radius the units that it's in
okay I'm gonna delete this circle so I
had delete but one thing I want to show
you too if we select our object maybe
I'll resize this a little bit we have
this object selected and you'll notice
this one actually has look how big our
stroke is on this one compared to the
last one in fact if I click this
Circle tool and draw another circle
they're different right this one has a
smaller stroke this has a larger stroke
that's because what this is this one we
scaled it up we drew a small circle I'll
do another circle down here we do a tiny
circle and then we went to the resize
now we went to get our selection and we
resize it using these bars and it's
scaled proportionally the stroke and the
also on the size of the circle so now
this stroke size is gonna be a different
size and we'll look at the settings to
control this stroke size in a minute but
you'll notice that it is a different
stroke than if we just draw a regular
circle this one does have a stroke we
can see if we click make it white we see
it has a stroke and actually the stroke
color is of not even quite black it's a
blue color and again to change the
stroke if I have a selected to change
the fill color we just left-click make
this one like red for example and then
to change the stroke color we hold down
the shift key and click whatever we want
the stroke to be so we can change it to
a different color I'll just make it
black though and then also we have a
little bit of transparency here because
what Inkscape does it remembers the
settings that you were using last time
and so we have a tiny bit of
transparency because you can see through
this shape you can see through to the
shape behind it you can see that circle
a little bit below if I want to bring
this shape forward I can hit this raise
race up a level it's not a layer
necessarily where there are different
layers here that we'll play with later
on in Inkscape but this is just levels
what level these different shapes appear
on so if I want this white to appear on
the very top level I can just click this
one that races it all the way to the top
level whatever item is selected will be
raised to a top level and if I want to
go down I can just raise it down one
level at a time or I can raise it all
the way to the top or all the way to the
bottom so there are some options that we
have for those for that tool I'm not
gonna change the transparency yet so
yours might be solid but we'll look at
that in the next video we'll look at how
to change transparency and and color on
things like that
in more detail than just using the color
below here this next shape we're gonna
look at is the star and polygons so
we'll left-click we'll drag we can
create you'll notice it just does
without ever the last color we had
selected was so if we select green it'll
turn green and if we draw another star
it'll be green the star has some
different options too so if we want to
click on it if we double-click very
quickly we get a what we notice we get
these white two handles again so these
ones we can change the pointyness of the
star make it like a stubby little fat
star we can make it very pointy and we
can also change where oops I missed this
one the W key we can also change on the
star where the points come together on
this inner part so we can actually cross
it over multiple times and create kind
of an interesting shape we make it also
very pointy this way are very stubby
this way and then also with the star we
have different options up here so right
now we see we have five corners but if
we wanted to make a triangle we can just
go down to three corners and now we have
a triangle we can make that kind of more
like a triangle or we can make it yeah
basically a three-cornered shape and
then we can make this have more as well
we can have it have lots of different
corners and we can still control the
pointyness of these so I'm doing I've
accidentally clicked so I'm hit the
Delete key I keep trying to hook on
those handles and the star tool is still
selected so I'm accidentally creating a
second little star but what I want is to
is to click on this handle right here
and make that very into there or we can
make it come out to there and have it be
sort of like an object like this we can
change and give a different
yeah just different characteristics and
so this is one that we can really play
with a lot and make a lot of different
cool shapes just by how we how we do it
so it's not just a shape like I said
it's not just a circle it's we can make
lots of different shapes by controlling
the different options of that shape so
always look at the top you'll see some
different options for things you
do moving on we can do this spiral tool
sometimes we'll use this so it's just
creates a nice little spiral and then we
can again move it so these black handles
are always the same these black arrows
always just let us resize let us rotate
we can rotate the star too if we want at
least click and then click a second time
to get to those rotate options and this
one if we double click very quickly we
have options for changing this size or
Canada different options for this spiral
like how tight the spiral is and yeah
that's really the this I just want to go
over the shape tools there's more tools
down here but we're not gonna go over
these ones in future videos I guess with
the exception that's like text we can
just click on the text tool and type and
start typing in you know things and then
we can change I'm alpha chain of text
yeah well we can change the color of the
text down here and then there's a lot
more options for text we'll do a whole
whole separate video just on text but
the rest of these we're not gonna really
play with and in fact I'm gonna give you
like a word of caution you if you want
to play with some of these yourself
you'll notice there's like an eraser
tool but this is a tool that I literally
never use ever inning scape and if you
if you've used Photoshop or or
maybe even Microsoft Paint you might be
used to using this tool where you can
like erase certain parts why that even
did oh it's because we're erasing in
blue oh so I did Dan so basically we can
like cut into the shape and right like
erase parts of it but it starts to get
things very very messy and the reason is
you're doing freehand you're doing
freehand erasing and the way Inkscape
works is that it creates these it
creates an object it based on math so
this star is a very simple object for
the computer it just says alright make a
star based off of these points by in
this tool so now I'm editing this just
just a node by node so we have like
basically one two three four five six
seven eight nine ten so it's basically
saying here's the ten points for this
star and so just draw a straight line
between each of these ten points and
you've got your object and that's why it
doesn't matter how big it is
so we can scale this incredibly large
and it won't ever lose its clarity or we
can scale it super super tiny as well
and these objects are all just stay nice
like if we zoom into the point at this
point right here look at this it doesn't
ever get grainy ever it just stays nice
and sharp always whether we scale it up
massive or shrink it down tiny and
that's because it's just mathematics
telling how to draw the shape it's like
draw three points one here one here one
here but that's why when we get into
drawing or when we get into using these
free hand tools and erasing it messes
things up a little bit because now
instead of having just a few simple
points I'm gonna click this tool which
is the edit node tools by path we'll use
this a lot later but see now look how
many points we have when we go in in the
erase it creates lots of unnecessary
points so if you're gonna use that tool
you'll want to come in and erase these
at least I think you should coming in
I'm just clicking on this node and
hitting the Delete key and I'm probably
getting too advanced for this video
anyway because we'll do that a lot later
but then we can kind of clean up that
line but it's just not something that I
ever do anyway you don't want to do
freehand there's a freehand pencil tool
where you can draw you know freehand
lines but it's just it just creates
messy looking things like how ugly this
thing is and it's just not worth it so
there's better ways there's much better
tools for drawing in Inkscape than doing
anything freehand so that's the word of
caution I would give you is don't do
freehand in Inkscape anything freehand
just don't do it instead there's better
ways where you can draw a path and then
map a line or map text to a path or map
you know you can use these paths that's
really the power of Inkscape if you want
to do some freehand art you should use
something like Krita or a Photoshop or
Inkscape
I mean aura or but if you want to
use some if you wanted to do the power
of Inkscape you really want to be
learning how to use these shapes and
then draw shapes to accomplish your goal
and edit the different nodes of that
shape instead of freehand drawing so
that was kind of a rant but in this next
video we're gonna be looking at we'll
look at how to control more of the
stroke and the fill options for these
different tools so join me on that sorry
I created such an ugly mess in here
because see look I can and I can't erase
this middle part now I can't erase this
ugliness that I created because it's
part of this circle now isn't that
terrible
we can't change it we can't it's all
just part of this one object that we've
drawn so it's ugly
anyway I'll stop talking about that and
we'll catch the next video looking at
fill and Stroke