 welcome back to another Inkscape
tutorial in this video we're going to be
looking at the text tool within Inkscape
so text tools over here on the left hand
side we just click this letter a and
that lets us click anywhere on to create
a point where we can start typing text
but before I click I'm just going to hit
the plus key and we'll zoom in here on
our page scroll to the top and I'll
click right up here in the top left-hand
area and we see a cursor appears and we
can start typing in whatever we want
when we're done typing we can hit the
Escape key two times and that gets out
of our text tool gets into our selection
tool and then we can click on the text
drag it around we can do anything that
we would do to a shape so we can resize
it essentially it's a text object is
what it is and so we can resize it on a
single axis we can click it a second
time and then we can rotate it around we
can skew it kind of create some
unofficial
italics I guess we can change the color
come down here we can change the color
of the text we can change if we want to
have it be like a yellow text we want to
have it have a border we can actually
come down and hold shift just like we
would anything else we can choose a
color like blue while holding shift and
I'll change the stroke the stroke color
of this text we can also get into the
fill and Stroke properties so we can
right click and go a fill and Stroke and
so we have these same properties that we
applied to our shapes and past tutorials
so for example with our fill if we
wanted to have a gradient instead it
would apply a gradient mmm it's not you
can't tell as dramatically with yellow
but we can come over here and do a
pattern instead so we can do like this
wavy pattern and it creates these waves
through here with the blue stroke we can
also go into stroke and turn off the
stroke so it's just waves but that's not
very legible yeah so that's one thing we
can do I'll come back to my selection
we'll just bring it up here we'll resize
this down a little bit and at any time
if we want to change the text we can
double click and we can get in here and
start typing more
you can do multi-line so if we hit enter
right now it'll do a second line and we
can do you know multi-line here and so
then these are all one object if we hit
the Escape key two times we're back out
and we can then rotate all of this
together
we can move it all together it's all
just one big box of text if I hit the
minus key and zoom out scroll down a
little bit we can come back to the text
tool again and create a second text area
and we'll just type whatever we want we
still have our text tool selected so if
we click anywhere else it will create
another text area and yeah that's what
we can do now if we want to change the
font or we want to change the font size
so we can just scale the text up like
this but if we want to change the actual
font we can go up here to text and click
text and font and it creates a nice text
options area here on the right hand side
and we can look at these different
options including the font so if we find
a nice font that we want to use just
hitting the down arrow keys till I and
it gives us a nice demo demonstration of
what the font will look like pretty
similar to if you used any other you
know word processing software will find
a good font that we like maybe we'll do
this one so we hit apply and changes to
this type font we can change the font
size here if we want to get a specific
size of our for our font instead of just
freehand scaling it we can also do so we
want to make this I select this talk
text box here and the settings for are
going to appear over here instantly so
whatever we have selected will be in our
options area over here we can do
justification so if we want to do
centered we can hit the align to Center
and then hit apply now all of our text
is kind of centered it's kind of hard to
tell because it's skewed also but we can
do right justified and hit apply so now
all of our text is to the right-hand
side of this box or by default it was
left justified so we have it justified
to the left there again what else can we
do so we have like if you're familiar
with text you there's like letting and
spacing so if we want to change this
space
between these different lines what we
could do is break these out and have
them be separate objects and then space
it like that but we can also just
double-click so once we're in here to
where we can edit the text or type in
more text we can hold down the Alt +
Shift key at the same time and then do
the greater than and less than keys and
that will change that whole line to like
adjust the spacing between those letters
what we can also do I'll come down here
and do it a little bit so if we zoom in
here and we want to do let's take this
one and just call it TJ free now if we
just select a certain letter I'll hold
down the shift key and highlight just
one letter like the J we can while
holding the Alt key we can press the up
and down arrow keys and we can actually
move that around we can we can also do
left and right so we can move around
just a single letter I'll come over
maybe take the R and hold down alt and
press the up arrow key and take this e
this last E and hold down alt and press
the down arrow key to bring it in a
little bit so we see we can actually
kind of change this all around however
we want take this T maybe bring it up so
now we've got this kind of cool font
thing going on and then we can actually
just take and well we're not to
highlight it we can just wall it
selected we can change the font and
it'll it'll keep it you know in that
same keep the same spacing or
orientation we've set for these fonts
which is kind of cool what else okay I
thought if one more thing I want to show
you with the text in Inkscape so it's
actually under extensions and we have
this text option under extensions and so
you can do some pretty cool things with
it if we just select the box that has a
text in it and we go to extensions and
down to text we can for example change
the case so if I want to change all this
to lower case I just do that extension
and all of a sudden this is all lower
case if the T was capital and the F was
capital we can also go to
tension extensions and go to text and
then go to change case flip case so that
makes anything that was a capital a
lowercase anything there was a lowercase
a capital so that's pretty cool and then
also if we select this text here that
has like three words in it we can go to
extensions because if you want we can
break these up into separate text boxes
right now they all just they all just
move together if we change the color
they all change the same color together
but while it's wet that if we go to
extensions text we can go to that split
tags to the very bottom and then we can
split by lines if there's multiple lines
this one doesn't this normally has one
line but we can split by words and then
hit apply and now we have separate so we
have our original one still but we also
have all three separate words so if we
want to apply different colors to them
simply we can do that if we want to make
one of them like a larger size than the
rest of them we can do that
and also we can do the same thing with
like tj3 if we go to filters or we go to
extensions I mean and go to text let's
make it all let's make it all uppercase
and then let's select it again we can
break out every single letter sometimes
with a logo you'll want to do this so we
go to text split text and we'll split it
by letters and hit apply so now we have
all those letters separately it makes a
copy so we have our original here and
then all the copy there we can delete
the original and then we have every
letter is its own little object now and
so now we can you know color it
accordingly or change the font of just
the T and the J so there's different
yeah a lot of times when I'm doing like
logo design I'll I'll break them out
like this and then that way I can do
different things with them however I
want to so that's the text tool oh okay
I actually one more thing I'll show you
I always think of things last minute
so one thing cool we can do if we draw
like a circle here and then we can
actually select some text and then hold
down shift and select any object that we
draw and then we can go to
texts I think and then we go put on path
and that puts the text on the path of
the circle and then we can rotate the
circle around and we can see that text
stays you know map to that path and we
can actually click the circle and have
it have no no happy all transparent no
stroke no fill but we can still have
just this text and then we can rotate it
and oh where'd it go
but you see to the point so it's kinda
like art you do have a vehicle have a
rainbow and have your text going along
that rainbow and then you can still edit
it while it's in there too which is
pretty cool when you keep typing it
types around in that circle yeah so
that's the text tool just a couple
things you can do play with some of
those if they've piqued your interest
and go ahead and subscribe like comment
below and I'll catch on the next video
you
