 welcome back to another Inkscape
tutorial in this video we'll be learning
how to draw lines the right way in
vector art and we'll be learning about
paths and objects and the difference
between the two so it's a very important
thing to learn and it's really what sets
Inkscape and illustrator and other
vector editors apart from Photoshop
and bitmap editors so what I mean is if
we grab this freehand tool which I've
cautioned you about using in the past we
can just draw whatever we want and it
creates kind of it draws that line but
then if we go back to our selection tool
we notice that this kind of squiggly
line that we've drawn behaves similar to
different shapes that we drew we can
click it a second time and rotate it
around we can apply some skew to it if
we just click it again we can just scale
and rotate we can scale it on a single
axis so it's kind of similar to when we
drew like our rectangles right we can do
all the same things to our rectangle so
this is sort of drawing a freehand line
but I caution you against it and the
difference between these two things are
one is a path well there's a lot of
differences but this is a path and this
is an object an object has some is
anything that is I mean I guess this
isn't the real way to define it but in
my mind an object is something that has
predetermined settings in vector art so
a square is a predetermined shape and so
it's like a circle as if we draw a
circle here so this circle has
predetermined math to make it much
simpler then than just drawing a bunch
of than just drawing a line so what I
mean by that is if we double-click very
quickly remember we got these different
points we have a point here that we can
determine the radius so the distance
from the center of the circle on the y
axis and the distance from the center of
the circle on the x axis so just off of
those two points using some simple math
you can create a circle
and so with very few instructions you
can tell the computer how to recreate
this circle and then also even leaving
out even with this part here I it's it's
a pretty simple operation to tell the
computer hey just leave out this certain
part of the circle so create an art from
this distance to this distance and just
don't draw the circle in and is to draw
a line to the center of the circle here
so I guess what I'm saying is it's much
less intensive than if we were to grab
the freehand tool and draw and draw draw
and recreate this shape first of all if
we try and do that it's just not going
to look so pretty we can still make it
green and we can try and come up here
and change our stroke to make it kind of
fat to match that one the difference is
this the thing that we've drawn is a
path anytime we freehand draw something
or when we draw with the Bezier tool
like we're going to be using later it
creates a path not an object so the way
that Inkscape is interpreting this shape
that we drew we can tell by
double-clicking on it very quickly and
we see all these grey dots appear these
are all the different nodes that it that
have been created to tell Inkscape how
to recreate this shape and if we click
on this one would double click very
quickly or if we just click while we
have our right now it's defaulted into
our edit pass by node tool and so now we
can see this is only we have four
different reference points is what
Inkscape is being told here it's saying
draw a circle with this X and this Y and
then cut out a radius from this point to
this point so it's much much simpler
which means it uses less space when
we're saving our file it's also what
lets us allows us to rescale without
losing clarity and without having our
object become pixelated this one we can
rescale to and it won't become pixelated
but it is much more intensive because we
have all these points and it's also
harder to edit so if we want to edit
this if we wanted to change any point of
it we can zoom in here and see we can
actually move any of these grey dots
called nodes we can move it around and
kind of change the shape of this a
little bit but there's some
many of them to be tedious to do one by
one and that's kind of why I've
cautioned against using the freehand
tool anytime you would want to use the
freehand tool what you really should be
using is the Bezier tool and we're going
to cover that more in the next video
we'll go over using the Bezier tool
but let's do a little bit quickly here
to show you the basics of it so I'm
gonna left click here on our selection
I'll take this will delete this object
will delete our square will delete our
circle and will even delete this
squiggly line that we drew first so I'm
gonna click on the Bezier tool and we're
just going to left-click a single point
here and a single point here and then
I'll just hit B well I'm gonna the
Escape key I forgot so I was doing
something earlier and maybe if you
played with it you might be on a
different setting
so I'm actually on this spyro setting
but I want to be on just the regular
setting so make sure you have regular
selected and then will you probably do
by default then just left click come to
a different point and left click again
and hit the enter key and we've created
a straight line this is the recommended
way to create a line in Inkscape or any
vector image Pro editing program I've
come to the selection tool now we have
this selected so we can rotate this line
around just like we would any other just
like we would an object although this is
not an object it's a path and that a
path just means it's made up of nodes
and connecting lines between those nodes
so this is a very simple path if I
double click on it we see we have a node
here and a node here and that's it
that's this entire path it's creating a
path for a line to follow we can do a
little bit more advanced one if I click
on the Bezier tool again we can click a
couple different points and then hit
enter and now we've created a little bit
more tiny bit more advanced paths so we
can come here and click Edit the nodes
of this and we can see all right so
we've got a node here a node here and
it's just drawing a straight line
between each of them now we can do the
same thing with our square or our
rectangle tool if we draw a rectangle
maybe we want to change maybe we want to
this kind of has 4 points right 1 2 3 4
but if we double click on it very
quickly
the options we have is round the corners
or change the size we can't move one one
point of it we don't have these
different nodes that's because this is
an object so we can turn an object into
a path in Inkscape and it's a really
important thing to learn how to do and
the way we do it we just go up to object
or we go up to path I mean and go object
to path so while our square is selected
our rectangle go to path then click
object to path now the compromise is we
can no longer round the corners of this
like we would like we could before if we
double click we don't have that rounded
corner option and we can't resize like
we like we could before I mean we can
still resize like this like we can any
drawn thing in Inkscape but if I
double-click very quickly now we have
these different points to control so
it's kind of a subtle difference but now
we can make it like a shape like this so
we have four points this is how you
would create this shape in Inkscape if
we wanted to do that we can do the same
thing it's gonna get crazy with our
circle but we can do the same thing with
our circle so this we can go draw it
it's an object right now by default but
if we go path object to path now if we
click on this edit we can see the
different nodes of this Oh actually it's
not too crazy what it's done is its
created curved lines so it only has a
few more points than it did before so
now we can change the center point of
this which we couldn't do before we can
change the arc on this by grabbing this
it's kind of like a handle so we can
grab this we'll learn more about this in
the next tutorial about using these
handles but every node has a different
handle associated with it or has it has
these two handles that you can change
the arc so it's not just a straight line
then we can create kind of a cool wacky
looking shape so because it's a because
it's now a path so I'd like you to play
with that it's really important to learn
how to do that how to change an object
to a path same thing if we draw our star
we can kind of control it very quickly
but everything happens it Mears if we
want to just create we want to just move
this one point and keep the rest of it
the same
like let's come down here a time you
might use that as like if you want the
point of the star to be taller than the
rest of it we can't do that right now we
can do it we can stretch the whole thing
or if we double-click we can make all
the points more pointy but if I want to
make just this top one really pointy and
the rest of them kind of stubby we have
to convert it to a path so we select it
go to path and go object to path and now
if we double-click we have every
different point we can control
separately so now we control just this
and make this one really pointy and the
rest we can keep the same or we could
change the rest around to in fact we can
change the shape whoa I would didn't
mean to do that ctrl Z we can change the
shape to any do a completely different
shape altogether but we lose those
options so we can no we can't go back
and change the the corners now like we
did when it was an object we just can't
do that so that's kind of a quick
introduction to paths and objects in
Inkscape it'll come together more in the
next video where we talked about using
the Bezier tool because it's a it's kind
of creates a path and we learned about
how to create these arcs and learn about
the differences between that oh I guess
I will say too it's something important
if we want to take this letter so this
is also kind of an object at first if we
zoom in it's an object it's a text
object so I have some different
parameters but if we want to we can
actually if you want to edit the shape
of this letter like really get down to
it if we double click right now the
option is keep typing right but if we
want to change it we can also convert
this go to object to path and then if we
double click we can edit the shape of
this letter individually so sometimes
you'll want to do this especially if
you're creating like a logo out of a
certain letter you can actually kind of
come in and create your own kind of
thing yeah so that's another option with
doing objects - path so we'll be doing
we'll be doing some more cool stuff with
this in future videos - hope that's made
sense go ahead and ask questions comment
below like and subscribe and I'll see
you in the next video
you
