welcome back to another Inkscape
tutorial in this video we're going to be
looking at using the freehand drawing
tool and I've told you in past videos
stay away from it
but I just want to show you some of the
different settings of it and if you are
gonna use it actually I show you kind of
some some things that can be nice with
it so I have my freehand tool selected
and this is gonna be a good precursor
into using the bezzie a tool which we'll
cover in the next video also in the past
video we talked about paths and objects
in just the previous video before this
so if you haven't watched that one yet
go ahead and watch it it'll help this
make a little more sense so if we draw
anything with this sort of pencil tool
this freehand draw tool and then we go
to edit the nodes of it by using this
tool here we see we've got all these
different nodes and that's because we
had our there's different settings for
this when we do freehand drawing so by
default it's a very it records
everything we do and it creates it kind
of jagged so we could smooth this out
and what we do is we go to path since
this is a path and not an object we go
to path and then we just go to simplify
and what that's actually gonna do is
remove some of those nodes so now if we
go see there's not nearly as many nodes
as there were before we do the same
thing again you go to path simplify and
it gets rid of some of those nodes and
in the process it smoothes this out a
little bit so it's a little more smooth
another way we can do this is just when
we're drying and this is like a big
difference a lot of people think when
they first start using Inkscape they're
like well illustrator you know does
freehand drawing a lot cleaner but
that's because it's just a setting it's
at under smoothness and Inkscape can do
the same thing so you just turn the
smoothness up to like 50 up here under
the settings when you have the freehand
tool selected and now if we draw some
squiggly lines it smoothes it out and we
can make this even more if we do like
yes 282 this is gonna be like really
smooth
so it just kind of smoothes it it takes
what we drew and it doesn't do exactly
what we did and it gives it much less
nodes so now we only have one two three
four five six nodes which lets us have a
lot more control so if you're signing
your stick
mature and you have this down to the
default which is five
your signature is gonna look super super
ugly I think and if you go to edit it
you're gonna have a thousand nodes in
here to edit especially if you draw
slowly the slower you draw your
signature this look your the way more
nodes you're gonna get in there I see
look at this but if we turn the
smoothness up to even like turn to 95
which is just way higher than you
probably ever want to do and then we
draw like the letter A it just makes it
look nice and smooth right or look the
letter let's do it T
J yeah so that's just much smoother than
it would have looked if we had our
smoothness down to 5% or five because
with this it's like TJ and it's just a
lot more you can see the difference of
it right and you can really see the
difference when you go in to edit the
notes this one has basically this is two
nodes one two incredibly simple whereas
this one is no not so many but it's
still quite a bit it's like twenty
different nodes maybe these things are
quite you know a lot of different nodes
to create this arc whereas this one is
gonna be just two nodes that's it to
create the arc and that's we're gonna
learn more about in the next tutorial
with our Bezier tool
but these arcs are controlled you have
these handles here so you can control
the steepness of this arc you pull this
handle out or you can control the angle
of it and control the shape that way
anyway let's get into our Bezier tool in
the next video but that's how you can
use the freehand tool if you want to
just use this smoothness that's gonna
help things out a lot or if ever you
have a really complicated thing like
this J here and you want to smooth it
out you can go to path and then go to
simplify and you can do that a couple
times paths simplify just keep doing
that a few times and eventually you'll
have a really much simpler you'll just
remove the amount of nodes you have and
create a simpler object that you can
edit much easier than having to go in
and edit every single
you have too many nodes and I guess I'll
show you this too you can actually
select multiple nodes so if we select
just these bottom ones then we can move
these bottom ones independent of the
rest of the nodes you can select
multiple nodes and delete them if I
select those three I hit the Delete key
you'll just delete those nodes so that's
just sort of you know touching on
getting started editing nodes and again
these are this is only with paths if you
go to draw like a rectangle and you want
to edit the nodes of it you can't
because it's an object and not a path so
to do that like we learned in our last
video and go to path object to path then
you can edit individual nodes and you
can add in nodes by double clicking you
can add another node in there and create
a kind of a cool shape right and you can
actually click and just create an arc if
you click and drag you can bend a part
of the shape and kind of start to create
really cool-looking things so join me in
the next video where we'll talk about
and be demonstrating using the Bezier
tool go ahead and feel free to ask
questions comment below get involved the
discussion and I'll see you on the next
video
