hey guys welcome back to another
Inkscape tutorial in this video I want
to show you one of my most favorite
tools in Inkscape and that's the trace
bitmap tool so you go to path and then
you go to trace bitmap when you have an
image selected so we're gonna be playing
with that today it's a really really
cool tool in the last video we traced
using the Bezier tool we traced an image
of a guy falling we're gonna do that
again only we're not going to use the
Bezier tool so I'm going to drag this
image in this is an image you can find
out where we got it in the last video we
were trying to pixabay.com and search
person we downloaded this free image so
you can follow along if you want to do
that but now we're gonna do this again
only instead of tracing it
oops ctrl Z I'll make sure I lock this
like I like to do so instead of tracing
it like we did last time we like zoomed
in and we traced every single point of
here and created this whole little
outline we're not gonna do that this
time we're going to just use this tool
that's built into Inkscape so we go to
we select the image and then we go to
path and then we go to trace bitmap and
it comes up with these different options
so brightness cutoff and a certain
threshold we'll just leave it in here
right now and we'll click update so if
we hit update it shows us a little
preview of what it'll look like if we
were to go ahead and try and trace all
the lines of this image based on the
brightness of the pixels so that looks
okay let's just see what that looks like
so if we hit OK it'll take a minute and
they'll actually do that so it traced it
created a path here and we can drag and
see what it looks like so this is what
it's created based off of this image and
this is all a vector path so if we zoom
in we can see that's actually pretty
cool detail so we see this guy here and
yeah I like it and so we can actually go
in now if we edit the different nodes we
can come in and edit different parts of
this and change it too so essentially it
did what we just tried to do with the
Bezier tool
didn't do as good a job though if you
notice because look here in the face you
so where my head I'll just close this so
here in the face it's a little bit it
didn't get the whole face but did get
some of the eyebrow it got some more
detail than we actually got got some
detail in the hair so it's not a
complete silhouette but instead of just
traced everything based on the the
brightness of the pixel it's super cool
huh but the thing is it's all tied
together here I'm not sure if there's
different layers we can tell we can
check by going ctrl shift G and see if
we can ungroup anything here and it
looks like it's all just one level so
we'd need to cut this out which we can
do but first I'm just going to delete
this let's come back up and let's try
again so we click on our image and then
we go to path trace bitmap so instead of
doing the brightness cut off well we can
just change the threshold so we can
lower this to maybe and change the 4 to
a 1 and go update and then it gets just
the person but it doesn't get all the
person so then we don't have that if we
hit OK we see we get this kind of thing
going so we get more detail in the shirt
but it's a lot lighter so it's still
this isn't perfect for what we want to
do although it is kind of cool if we did
want to keep this let's just keep it for
fun let's turn it red and let's bring it
over here because then what we can do is
go to our edge detection and do the same
thing so we hit update and now it's
going to show us a preview of the edge
detection oh nothing is selected right
now we have to make sure we have our
picture selected that we want to trace
our bitmap and it has to be a bitmap if
we select a vector it won't do anything
has to be a bitmap that we're tracing
which this is it's a JPEG image I think
so we hit update and now it'll show ok
so let's change this threshold that's
lower lower this down to maybe 3 5 hit
update that's still not quite where we
want let's go way down to 0.06 that's
pretty cool I'm gonna go down even lower
oh not to 0 update so 0.10 wait okay so
now we've got another thing traced oh I
got a little piece of something up here
it looks like but that's pretty neat huh
and so now we have this outline here
which did a pretty good job of doing the
edge detection it wasn't doing
it wasn't tracing based off of the
brightness of the pixels it was tracing
based off of the edge that it could find
like a hard edge which I guess probably
uses some sort of brightness to detect
it anyway but now we can move this over
let's send this to the top layer and now
we have like we can kind of merge and
create a really cool looking thing maybe
turn this blue or like yeah like a green
so we can create a really cool look by
merging these two together that's pretty
neat huh see if I can select both of
them at the same time click and shift
click click shift click there we go so
now we have this cool kind of effect
going on here and we can keep doing this
we can get different layers that we want
to out of this so we can click our
bitmap again and then this is still
opened up so whatever's clicked here
we'll just get updated so we can go to
color quantization it's a word you don't
use very often cover quantization so we
click update and what that's going to do
it's going to create something like this
but it's gonna do it with eight
different colors so I'm gonna do it just
to illustrate all the four colors and
hit update so using just four colors
it's going to it's going to basically
break this image into four different
colors thresholds so I'll click click
okay and then we can come down here and
so that's created a pretty cool thing
and we've got different colors here so
if we hit ctrl shift G and ungroup we
can see there's different there should
be different noted before right ctrl
shift G okay maybe it's just did for
whatever reason it did two colors it's
just black and white that's kind of cool
too though so just kind of play around
with this and you can see so let's let's
take it up again to six do update update
do okay I'm trying to get different
colors here I think we can get it now
it's doing all black do I have a setting
that's only doing black somewhere I
should make sure I'm not because this
can do this can do colors also but for
some reason it's just doing black right
now Oh colors oh I see
so on this is a single I was on single
scan which is why it's just doing black
if I want to do multiple colors I click
here on colors and
then I go down to four wall selected and
hit update with you it looks like
that'll look cool
now I hit okay and now what it's doing
is that just using four colors it's
creating a version of this which is how
you know you see this could be like a
t-shirt print of this because it really
only has four colors is it awesome and
we can break out these colors now we can
go ctrl shift G and now we can see we
have our background color alright we can
delete that if we want we can delete
these ones here if we want to and we can
see just these different parts so
they're all kind of hooked to each other
and there's I'll show you in the next
video how to get rid of this down here
because there's not really we could use
like the erase tool I suppose and trying
to erase it out but we don't we're not
going to do that there's no a better way
to do it yeah awesome tool isn't it
pretty good pretty cool so let's come up
here and let's go to we can do
brightness steps and just kind of see
what that looks like
so brightener steps is gonna be similar
to this to the brightness cutoff we've
got we can do just graze and do like
five different grays and update and see
what it looks like in five different
shades of grey or we can do three
different shades of gray here three is a
bit too little let's do six hit okay and
now this is going to be the last one we
actually have some reds but this time
it's just all just Gray's so it'll look
similarly to the other one maybe that's
too many you could see the sky is two
different shades but yeah play with this
it's awesome and you can use it on
vector art too if you bring in like a
dirty like a small little like a fav
icon like for my website and it has
little pixelation it's kind of messy you
can run this on it and kind of clean it
up then you can scale it much larger if
ever you have a tiny little tiny little
thumbnail of a like a vector graphic
let's see here so we just do one real
quick if we find a little logo that's
like too small
these are all gonna be pretty good
quality but sometimes you'll find a
really small grainy logo that's just
that you want to scale up massively and
put it on a billboard
well what you'll do is just run that
trace and you don't have the source file
for it if all you have is a teeny to
little logo then you can bring it in
here
trace a bitmap on it and then scale it
up much larger and you can clean up you
know those little portions as well so
that's the trace bitmap tool one of my
very favorite tools of all time in
Inkscape and it is super powerful
especially if you want to do like
t-shirt prints we're creating a kind of
a print quickly based off of a real
photograph so I hope you liked this
video comment subscribe like below and
let me know how you use this tool
because I'm curious of other
applications you can use it for
I'm sure the sky is the limit appreciate
your watching we'll catch you on the
next video
