welcome back to another Inkscape
tutorial in this lesson we're going to
learn the proper way to erase and a way
that we can a nice good way that we can
kind of merge shapes together and create
new interesting shapes without having to
freehand draw things so we see here this
remembered the last settings that we
were using so if we just select this
circle and double click on it and click
this full to complete a full circle and
then I mission to draw a rectangle and
will turn one of them red will keep the
other one blue and they both have a blue
stroke but that's fine so what we want
to do suppose we want to make a shape
like this that had like a square we want
suppose we want the shape to look like
that the whole outline of this so maybe
we'll make it black let's make both
these black actually alright and then
forget about the stroke but it'll look
kind of like this well what we can do is
we can select both objects and we can go
up to path and we can go to this Union
and that will create a union we see it
gets rid of that blue line the overlap
line and now this is just one object
it's not a group if we hit ctrl shift G
nothing happens we can't break this
apart it's just kind of an object now we
can never get back this Square and this
circle separately this rectangle in
stand circle oval instead it's just this
thing like maybe this is a loaf of bread
and we can color it so it looks like a
loaf of bread that's a way that you can
kind of create some different things
maybe you want to create the Mickey
Mouse ears so we do this then we hit
ctrl D to duplicate it and then we draw
like an even bigger circle to connect
the to make our Mickey Mouse ears like
this but we'll turn them all like blue
so that's pretty cool oh hey that's
matching our stroke color so it looks
really good
so it looks good right now we could just
group ctrl G and now they're all grouped
together but it's different than this
and the reason it's different is if we
were to put a stroke on there you'd
still see those lines and sometimes you
want to have we we might want to do a
stroke on this in fact let's do let's do
it you know a nice
noticeable stroke and we want these
lines to be gone so we don't what we
don't do is take the erase tool and try
and erase those lines like this that's
just gonna not work even if it's
selected it's not going to be oh we're
on there I don't know if I would even
work ctrl shift G if we ungrouped it we
could try and do that so we take this
and now we try and erase it
it'll this is what it does creates all
kinds of craziness and if we turn off
the the fill even it's still not gonna
work the way we wanted to so control so
you control Z control Z what we want to
do is the same thing we did to make this
loaf of bread we select the whole thing
we go to path Union and now this becomes
its own path so it's no longer an object
we can't get in and edit the radius of
each individual circle we can't make the
pac-man anymore like we could before by
doing like this type thing so we can't
do that because this is an object oops
this thing is an object now and this is
a path but what we can do if we double
click we can see we can edit the
different nodes of this path we can kind
of change the arc but we had looking
pretty nice the way before is because
I'm just awesome at drawing Mickey Mouse
ears so now we've got a Mickey Mouse
here we've got a loaf of bread what if
though what if we want to well ok let's
create a bite mark out of this loaf of
bread this is a good example so what if
we want our bite to look kind of like
this let's select some circles let's
make it a full circle so it's not the
pac-man and doesn't matter what color it
is we'll just make it black let's zoom
in here and let's have a nice so let's
get maybe about this size with you one
day I'll have control D to duplicate
we'll do s another one and control D
that looks sort of like a bite mark
maybe we'll bring this one forward a
little bit more so we're trying to
create like that I look like there's
something been bitten out of here so
we'll keep it just like that we'll
select all of these I'm gonna hit
control D and just duplicate this whole
thing we might use it again let's select
all of these and go to path and then we
go to difference and now what it's done
hmm control-z let's say let's select
these three and and create a path out of
all of them a union I mean so it's Union
these just like we did the Mickey Mouse
ears and now let's make that our bite so
now we swept the bread by holding down
shift and selecting the bread and these
three Union circles and now we go to
difference and now we've got a nice
little bite mark out of there and see
that the stroke follows the bite mark
and it looks kind of like a bit of bites
been taken out of there if this doesn't
make sense at first that's completely
normal because this is not this is like
an absent an abstract way this is the
way that you work in Inkscape but it's
kind of counterintuitive to what you
might think to being used to with bitmap
editing where you just grab an eraser
and draw out an edit pixel by pixel and
the reason again that we do this in
Inkscape is because we can scale this
loaf of bread huge and it'll always keep
the same characteristics it'll never
ever get grainy so if we zoom in here
it's always just nice and sharp and it
never gets graining it's it looks really
cool all right so those are the two that
we looked at path we've got Union we've
got difference there's also intersection
intersections like well what if we want
to keep just the part of the objects
that intersect with each other so I'm
gonna highlight these three circles and
delete them and let's say we want to
keep just the bottom half of a star as
it intersects with this loaf of bread
come on now I've got my you can turn
that off if it's bothering you you can
actually turn off this thing here that
says enable snapping and we'll just
disable snapping then that won't snap
any more with that enabled you see that
was like the corner of the star was
snapping to the top of the bread so if
that bothers you like it just did me we
can change that let's make this
intersection though and let's highlight
this whole thing let's go to path
intersection so now what that's done is
just done the inside intersection you
can look and see and so it's cut off the
top of the star because that's where the
loaf of bread was intersecting it but
everything else is gone
so now it's like a little object
actually wasn't the best example let's
go back a better example for that one
would have been a path and let's do like
exclusion and so now we have just the
star excluded or actually even if we
drag it to the middle and we want it to
be yeah we go here path exclusion so now
we have a loaf of bread with a star in
the middle of it but it's not like it's
not a white star it's a star cut out of
it so if we drag it over top of
something it's like a cut out just like
this this bite mark is a cut out only
it's behind if when I raise it we go to
the top level and then we can see it's
in front of there let's take but we're
done now we can't we can't grab this
star back out unless we do undo and hit
ctrl Z we're just done with all of these
we can't these are just paths now we can
go in and edit the nodes of them but we
can't ever go back and change the
properties of this star like we would
just by drawing a store we can't do this
for example or we can't do this to this
star because it's no longer an object
it's a path cut into this bread let's
draw one more let's draw another thing
to do an example
oops so one thing in fact with a star
though we'll just use this loaf of bread
that we already have controlled
duplicate I'll delete these circles I
just did let's take this star and see
it's behind we need to get up top so I
can push the page up key on my keyboard
or I could hit this button to raise the
top but let's create something kind of
like this and then what I'm gonna do is
hold down shift and select the bread and
the star at the same time and we'll go
to path and we'll do this will do is it
cut path yeah let's do cut path so that
was a set that'll make it so that we
have all these different parts of this
bread and they're each different paths
so everywhere that star was it's kind of
hard to to see you if we hit ctrl Z it
cut each of these paths into into
different points so now we have just
this path here we would probably do with
a star like that but if ever you want
that you have a path like this and we
want to cut out just the top part of it
we can do that
cut path and if we do it like this if we
want just the top part of the bread we
go to path and we go to cut path and now
we have just this top part of the bread
as its own separate path because
otherwise you know naturally you might
just think well let's why don't we just
edit the nodes and then you come in you
start deleting nodes like to get to that
top half and it just doesn't behave the
same way so this top half the bread is
now it's all connected and how do you
break apart so and there are multiple
ways to accomplish this but a good way
to get to have create shapes that you're
wanting to shape to create is gonna be
to use these different things division
exclusion intersection so play with
these and I should have mentioned this
earlier but a good cheat sheet for
everything that you've learned in these
tutorials and honestly like the way that
I've learned in scape is by using the
built-in tutorials so if you go to help
you go to tutorials I believe these ones
are under advanced maybe but it brings
up a new window and it shows you all
this stuff that we've been doing so you
scroll down and it has you know working
with text and somewhere on was it on
this one yeah so it has all the
different it shows an illustration of
what these different things do Union
difference intersection exclusion
division cut path and so you can
practice this the cool thing about this
tutorial the tutorial is built into
Inkscape is that you can actually click
and edit the every part of it even the
text it's really cool because the
tutorial is written on an Inkscape
canvas and so if we want to demonstrate
this union we just go to select both of
them go to path and then we go to Union
and now we have that same shape as this
hit ctrl Z and we can demonstrate each
one of these we can do difference we can
do this division we go to path division
and it creates the same looking thing
here it's like a puzzle piece so that's
really cool so anyway that's why you can
learn and reference a lot of what you've
learned is by going into these different
tutorials under the help and tutorials
section inning scape sorry I should have
mentioned that earlier that's like a
super
valuable resource I don't know why I
didn't just start start that at the
tutorial one showing you that was there
but anyway hopefully you find that
useful and it opens a separate window
too so we can just close that close
without saving and then we have our old
one up here but practice get used to
those tools because you will use them
thanks for watching we'll see in the
next video
