welcome back to another Inkscape
tutorial in this tutorial we're going to
be looking at the align and distribute
tool to help keep our objects and text
anything we that we draw lined up and
square it up with the page with each
other and looking awesome so I'm going
to come out here so we can see the whole
page I'm gonna open up well first we'll
just draw let's draw a star a nice black
star we'll put right in the middle here
and then we'll go to our object go all
the way down to a line and distribute we
can also open it by pressing control
shift a that's what it tells us that
brings up our panel over here on the
right hand side for our line and
distribute so there's a couple different
so first of all this lets us align this
align whatever object we have relative
to a couple different sources by default
is relative to selection area which
means if I have another say I draw like
a rectangle and make it red and I make
it the size of the page or I make it not
even the size of the page let's just
make it like this and I lower it down to
the lower level below the star and I
want this star to be in the center of
this red box I can just select the whole
selection area and so based on this
whole basically this dotted line this
star I can Center it to this to the
middle of that selection area I can
Center it this way I can push it all the
way to the left so it so the first part
of the star touches the very left side
of the selection box I can push it to
the right push it at the top but I
usually do this for centering things so
I'll go Center on the what is this
x-axis y-axis and then Center along here
on the horizontal horizontal vertical
guess which call it that another thing
we can do if I click this red box and
delete it we can Center this star if we
change this relative to the page now we
can Center the star relative to the page
so now if I Center it it will center on
the page vertically and we can Center on
the page horizontally as well so now we
have this star centered on our printed
page or on our page what
whatever we're designing on what else
can we do relative to so we can go
relative to if I draw a circle here and
I put it down to the bottom level we can
Center or we can align based on the
first object selected so based on the
first selected so if I select the star
first then I go shift and select this
red circle and then we go to center it's
going to Center this circle based on the
center of the star so it'll find the
center of the star and align the center
of the circle to the star center so see
the star stays in the same place but the
circle goes there if we want to do it
differently we can do if we select the
star the circle first and then hold
shift and select the star now it'll be
whatever we whatever we apply will be
based off of the circle kind of like it
was the first time only it's not
selection now it's first selected we can
also do it by like smallest objects we
can do it based off of our we won't use
based off for drawing but I want to show
you with multiple options with multiple
items so maybe we want to do since we
have a circle already let's create it
like a light blue color and let's shrink
it down let's just go duplicate this and
duplicate this and we'll make a snowman
so we have a snowman here actually we'll
use something that we did in our last
tutorial which is we'll select all three
of these and we will go to object or
we'll go to path Union and make them all
one thing and that way when we go to our
if I hold down shift and will give it a
nice blue outline so now we have a
nice-looking little snowman here and we
want to create some buttons on the
Snowman so we'll create a button and
we'll make it we'll just make the whole
thing black sure black with a blue
outline so we have some buttons here and
I controlled D I can duplicate this
button ctrl D and duplicate so now we
have three let's do let's do three
buttons if I want to align these so
they're centered with the Snowman I can
do it a couple ways relative to first
selected I can select the Snowman then
hold shift and select all three buttons
then just go to the center now they're
all sent
on the snowman and I did I only want to
center them along this axis not along
the other axe not vertically if I Center
and vertically they'll all be on top of
each other so there's like three on top
of each other now so what I want to do
is actually well the reason I have three
of these is because if ever we want we
can select all three of them like this
or I can hold down the shift and select
all three and then we can distribute so
we've got a line we also have distribute
and distribute we can we can get make
easy even spacing be between based on
the center of these three objects we can
have them be spaced evenly apart
horizontally so to do that we do this
one right here distribute centers
equidistantly equidistantly and there
you go so let's we could switch to the
center of them with each other first and
now we can make sure there's an equal
distance between each one so if we drag
this one down here and this one here we
can give an equal distance by selecting
them all and then doing this here since
the circle all three of these are gonna
do the same thing really it's just what
point it's based off of if they were
stars it might be a little bit different
so this is based off at the top point
the top edge this is based off at the
bottom edge this one just makes the
space in between them be equal so if one
of them was a star if we select and
delete we'd bring the star in here so
this might be a little different we
probably I would want to do centers as
well so I Center them all together and
then I distribute them based on the
Centers of them does that make sense
and it really comes in handy if we have
if we were to control D on all of these
and control D again so if we get a whole
bunch of things going on here like this
and we just drag them all over here so
now we want to create a nice line if we
want all these to be lined up first of
all we just Center them all to each
other basically to the first selected I
guess is what it did and then if I want
to make them relative to each other or
distribute them relative to each other
we just do this now they're all
distributed based on the center point
the center point of each is equally is
equal and if we wanted to do it slightly
different we could
they use the top edge of each object and
use that as the align point so now these
stars are down a little bit it looks
like there might be a little off-center
but it's because it's basically basing
it off at the top edge of that so I
would probably keep this one here to do
that or this one which does equal
spacing between the gaps so it uses the
bottom and top edge and make sure the
white space between each object is the
same size yeah you can have as many
object you know objects in a line as you
wanted to to do that we can shrink these
down and put them in here
that's pretty cool anyway that's a line
and distribute so just play with that
there's some more things we can do with
it but basically make sure you
understand this relative to I like to do
page if I'm working on if I'm working
within the page like a printed page or
something and then I'll also do
selection area a lot of times too so
Center it based on a selection area yeah
play with that different options there
but it's become super powerful when you
want to do have things line up properly
if you have lines especially or little
objects like this it can become really
nice tool to have in fact I should have
lined these up before I union them
together I should have lined these so
they were all three in a straight line
thanks for watching this video on a line
undistribute play with this tool learn
how to use a little bit better and I'll
catch you in the next video
