welcome back to another Inkscape
tutorial in this video I want to show
you how to import an illustrator file so
maybe you've you have a file that's a
dot ai file extension a file created in
Adobe Illustrator but you want to work
on it or change it or edit it in
Inkscape not a problem because Inkscape
can import illustrator files so as long
as it's not too complex
there's no usually not problem so I
found this file here that's on
pixabay.com it's a simple illustration
of an ice cream cone and this is by user
alma in progress they've released it
under Creative Commons 0 so free for
commercial users no attribution required
we really appreciate them sharing this
with us and we can actually download the
original Illustrator file that they use
to create this so I already downloaded
it go head and click download under the
illustrator file not under an image but
make sure you get the vector graphic and
I have that saved on my computer right
here in my downloads folder and if I try
and open it I don't have any I don't
have illustrator installed on my
computer so I can't open it in
Illustrator but I can just drag and drop
it in to Inkscape or I can also go file
import and we see we have if we go to
the file type we have all these
different options for different files
that are supported by Inkscape to import
some of them are like we have some
pretty cool ones actually here so all
kinds of different file formats but we
find the one here that is Adobe
Illustrator so there's two we've got
Adobe Illustrator SVG and Adobe
Illustrator 8.0 and below I'm not sure
what this is so I'm not going to import
it this way I'm just going to drag and
drop it in and it'll automatically
detect what it is and it brings up this
dialog we'll just keep all the settings
the same and hit OK and now we have this
ice cream cone here in Inkscape we can
resize it and we can click the plus sign
to zoom in on it if we want to change so
we can see if it has different layers we
go to layers and see so there's no layer
information so it's probably all just on
one layer we can ungroup here by hitting
ctrl shift G
and now we have this the ice cream the
three scoops are separated from the cone
and the cone is separated from itself so
that's kind of cool and these we can
probably ungroup to control shift G and
now we see we have control shift G you
do it again so now we have three
separate ice cream scoops and we can
change maybe we just want to be like you
know what we love this vector graphic
but we'd rather we had like a light blue
ice cream and we'd rather this one was
like more of a purpley color and we want
the top one to be like a red so were
like cool there no problem then we can
regroup or we can be like yeah we wish
the purple was like off to the side like
this so it was sort of like created this
look so we can change it however we want
because we have this original source
file which is awesome and maybe the comb
we want to apply a different texture or
we want to change the color of it to
make it like a darker I don't know
whatever we want to do but we can do it
because we've got the source file and we
can read Adobe Illustrator files in
Inkscape yeah so I hope you found this
video informative check it out actually
ctrl G we can even add an additional
scoop if we wanted to on here so we can
be like yeah boom and then bring the
glow up to the top level yeah
yeah so that's it you get the idea and
you can find lots of source files if
you're curious on pixabay these are all
I just searched I actually searched for
Adobe Illustrator files but under vector
graphics you can just search for
whatever you want and it will it'll find
all kinds of files that you can download
and actually bring in to Inkscape and
edit change colors or have a lot more
control than you would often just a
regular picture this would be a cool one
to play with and again we can just see
this is a vector graphic so it has a
transparent background we can change the
color of the paint to blue fairly easy
in Inkscape using this method hopefully
you've enjoyed this video go ahead and
like and subscribe check out some of my
other tutorials and I'll catch you in
the next video
