hey guys welcome back to this Inkscape
tutorial series I'm nearing the end of
what I feel like I can teach you I think
that in the future videos I'm just gonna
do with some application-specific
videos teaching you how to create a
certain like a logo or a certain product
but in this video I want to show some of
the things that we've created in the
past my wife and I using Inkscape so
this is actually a book cover this is
the front of the book and the back of a
book that my wife created for a
nonprofit organization that she's
working on called humanity books and I'm
just gonna show some video footage of
some of the real world objects like
these that she's created using Inkscape
really cool stuff and so I just want to
show that you can actually make some
pretty awesome things using Inkscape and
it's not just in theory it's not just
for like web design you can create
really professional-looking end results
here's another shirt that she made this
is the the source file for it
so these fonts I actually don't have the
correct fonts installed because these
were designed on Linux and then I think
she has some special fonts that she used
anyway but this shirt turned out really
well and this is just a screen printing
shirt and then in my business I've
actually used this is this sort the
original file I used when trying to
figure out the logo so these are some of
the different design choices I went I
kind of went through to try and arrive
at my final design and you can kind of
see how it came together and then I got
like just some samples of putting our
logo on t-shirts and bald cap so I using
scape a lot in in branding of my own
business and kind of seeing what it all
what these different logos will look
like you know on vehicles and different
things like that but this is the source
file and I've and I've embroidered this
on jackets and shirts and business cards
and done a lot of things like that so
yeah that's all I wanted to show it show
just a couple of the real-world things
that we've created using Inkscape and
hopefully this kind of piques your
interest and inspires you for the ways
that you can use Inkscape as well
appreciate you watching this video go
ahead and join me on
other ones and I'll catch you in the
next one
