welcome back to another Inkscape
tutorial in this video I want to show
you how to create a custom thumbnail for
your YouTube videos so this is some
thumbnails I created for this tutorial
series using sweet home 3d and I'm gonna
actually just hit print screen right now
and go into Inkscape I'm gonna right
click and go to paste I'm just gonna
paste this screenshot and I'm gonna do
that actually one more time I want to
get a couple different examples we'll
grab some videos here and go print
screen because what I want to do is
actually see what these look like so if
we zoom in here a little bit I can kind
of get an idea for what the thumbnail
will look like so on on the playlist
look at this the times the the length of
the video kind of covers up the bottom
right-hand corner of the video and if we
come over here to these other ones just
a regular one it's not as this is a
larger video so the time stamp doesn't
take up as much space there's also a
little clock in the top right-hand
corner they could cover something so
when I'm designing this thumbnail I'm
gonna want to make sure I keep the top
right hand corner and that bottom
right-hand corner kind of don't have
anything very important there that'll
get covered up see when I designed these
ones I actually didn't consider that
very well because I have the logo here
that kind of gets covered up when it's
in the playlist view so in designing
this one I'm gonna change that a little
bit so what I can do first of all I'm
just gonna I'll just get my rectangle
tool and I'll draw a little rectangle
here and I'll make it maybe like a
lighter gray and turn the opacity way
down so I can kind of see through it a
little bit maybe we'll make it like red
so we can see what's going on here okay
perfect
so this is kind of the the size and then
I actually I'm gonna want to go I'm
gonna kind of just try and kind of match
this so I'll get my text and I'll just
type in floor plus foundation and I
happen to know the font that I used for
this if I go into my text and text and
font what I used was next bold and we go
to apply and so now we have a nice neck
so bold here
then I believe that's control Z control
Z so I believe I'm going to lock this
lock here so that kind of constrains it
to X and y axis when I resize it so it
doesn't get out of there we go so it
looks pretty good so now what I've done
here is sort of sort of copied this yeah
I can go ctrl D to duplicate I can come
down here and rename this part down here
is called lesson two so I'm copying my
own work here but I'm just showing you
an example of what you can do if you
find the thumbnail you kind of like and
you want to pattern it after so
basically I've kind of patterned this
and now we have this is the logo down
here so all this really has is it a
border and then it has a logo or an icon
of the of whatever I'm talking about
because I'm doing tutorial videos on how
to use software then as this banner that
says TJ free across the the bottom there
so I can create that banner I think by
kind of getting a nice blue here I can
actually if I turn my opacity all the
way up or is it that and I can grab my
color picker and actually get the same
color that was used in this video so now
I'm using the same color and I can
rotate it to about the same angle that's
pretty close there maybe I'll just do
this this isn't the best way to do it
but at least it gets it pretty close
here and doesn't matter that it's
sticking out past the edges because it
just doesn't matter yeah so that's great
and I'll get some text there to say TJ
free I don't know what font that was in
TJ three and we turn out white
oops we turn it white and then we'll
also rotate it oh let me resize it first
so this looks like it's definitely a
different font I wonder if this was a
this baby's baby snowy mmm
apply yeah it is baby snow look at that
one of the most common fonts of all time
used on YouTube so here we go so now
we've got this nice TJ free here and
I'll rotate it so that it fits perfectly
in there but that's pretty good awesome
now I'm going to go ahead and just
delete this whole thing I'm gonna come
back and we'll change this back to how I
wanted it to be real quick we'll put the
stroke on and we'll make it
sorry about that when we get pixels what
does I have it at 3 pixels about all
right so this is what it this is what my
my thumbnail is looking like now so I
want to create a that's thumbnail that's
gonna be the same throughout the whole
series just like on this one it's the
same I just changed the text and I say
lesson for lesson 5 I change the text at
the top but everything else stays the
same so I wanna do the same thing for
this one but I want to be Inkscape and
so I have I found the Inkscape logo I
got from Wikipedia and it's actually
here in the pictures yeah I've got it
right here so I'm gonna actually just
drag it in I'm dragging the Inkscape oh
icon into Inkscape and it's actually it
looks like it's really big but that's
because what really happened is this
thing that we designed is really small
so I'm gonna select it let's make it
large in fact let's make it the size
that it really needs to be so to do that
I'm gonna go to file I'm gonna go to
document properties and change my
document to 1920 by 1080 that's the size
of the thumbnail and put it in pixels
that's the size of the thumbnail that is
a pretty good you can do smaller to
upload to YouTube but I would recommend
doing 1920 by 1080 that way if someone's
watching on like Roku TV or like if
they're just if they're browsing
fullscreen it'll it'll show up properly
okay so now now I changed my document
properties this is the size of my my
finished thing so I'll just move this on
here and kind of roughly put it in the
same size like that that's pretty good
and then I'm actually gonna click on my
square and make sure that it's exactly
how I want it to be to or my rectangle
so pixels so I'll make it 1920
by 1080 exactly and then I'll just put
it exactly within the constraints of
this document and that's perfect
okay pretty good so this is gonna this
thing let's see I think I want my border
on hit page up or I'll just raise the
top so that it covers up the covers over
top of this this have transparency yes
let's make it 100% and then we'll change
the color of it too I haven't decided
what color I want to do oh yeah I know I
did that's right I want to do grey so
let's go back to this and let's make it
grey all right and so now I want to move
I want to move this up a little bit I
want that to be centered in there about
like that and now I'm gonna hit ctrl G
and group this and I can move them
together I'm using the arrow keys on my
keyboard right now so about right there
it's pretty good I think for a banner
yeah about how I did on my last one yeah
that's pretty good okay so now I need a
background image well actually I don't
get background image is this 1920 by
1080 I told it to be no it's not oh I
know why I had it locked 1920 by 1080
now it is now I can ReWalk it perfect so
there we go perfect all right now I'm
gonna add in so now I have my my icon
here so I'm going to take it will resize
it down a little bit I'm not sure what
font they use for this so remember I
want to keep out that area at the bottom
right hand corner did i erase that I
think I did but I want to keep that area
free there and that's the whole reason I
brought it in I can't believe I did that
and I hit print screen again and I'm
gonna come paste it and again paste so
really let's make this like super
transparent and then we'll make it we'll
make this kind of
I guess what's the best way to do this
this is not the best way to do this
actually but we'll just give it a try so
what I want to do is kind of make this
the same size as my video down here
which I'm getting close and then I can
see how much of that is taken up by
that's pretty good
so now when I overlay this here and
actually what I'm gonna do is just I'm
gonna take and copy this so I have two
different versions now I go duplicate
move the whole thing over here so it's
out of the way now I can look at this
one I can see all right so it looks like
that takes up quite a bit so that's good
there
I could actually I could still I could
still make this lower just the bottom
here I can still move I can make this
icon larger I can put it anywhere I
don't want to get it here if I put it
here or get covered up so I could put it
even a little bit further over this way
if I wanted to because I really want to
have some sort of a background image I
think I might just Center it so centered
it centering it should be fine okay good
to know so I'll come back over here I
feel like I'm talking a lot and I hope
I'm not confusing you so what I'm gonna
do I'm gonna go grab all this stuff
I'm gonna go hung out all of it I'm
actually just gonna grab this and then
shift and do this and we're gonna Center
these on each other so I'm going to go
object line and distribute and we'll
Center those up so now this is right in
the center this I don't necessarily want
in the center I want about it I do want
to be lined up I want these to be pushed
like this great
and then we'll put this kind of up here
that's pretty good Oh in this lesson to
was had its own little banner behind it
that's because there was a background
image so I could just export this right
now and we can see what it looks like I
don't love it yet but listen if we just
let's go to export and see so export PNG
we'll export it to the desktop and we'll
call it test one and that's not on my
desktop let's put it on the desktop test
one perfect and then let's make the size
we'll make this like ninety two dpi and
we'll make this 1920 by 1080 perfect 96
dpi very good ok export so now it'll
only export the selection so it should
cut off that banner and we'll see what
that looks like
not bad so it has a transparent
background which is not super great and
it has this TJ free did my last one do
that I can't tell I think the I think
this blue banner did go over the last
one so let's make that happen in this
one too so we have to do that which take
the blue banner and send it raise it to
the top so now it will go over it ok and
then like I said it had a has a
transparent background so it's hard to
tell exactly how it looks so let's put a
background so I thought about using this
at one point in time and maybe I still
will
yeah so let's just drag this guitar and
this is a guitar that I drew inning
scape a while ago when I was first
learning Inkscape so we could put it as
the background to do that we did we just
raise it up like this and then lower it
to the bottom level so that actually
looks pretty good
the only problem is now the Inkscape
logo is not exactly where I'd want it to
be hmmm no I don't think I want to do
that I have another I have another image
I wanted I want to try and that is this
Nintendo thing that I drew up so that's
kind of a cool thing too so we could try
this one although it has a black
background
I don't love that I wish I had I do have
the original this somewhere well that's
not gonna work at all is it
no so I need to find a good background
image that kind of exemplifies Inkscape
I don't know exactly what to do there I
mean I could I suppose I could just grow
I could just draw something like this
and give it like a gradient let's come
down here to my fill and Stroke where's
that that's right click filling stroke
let's give it a gradient from the center
out let's make it like gray maybe hoops
oh dude gray and with a great gradient
and I'm just lower it all the way down
yeah that is not look that does not look
amazing to me I think this is too oops
this is too dark maybe and I think I
want this to be reversed this gradient
let's try it like that just give it a
little bit of subtle let's give it some
subtle color that's not bad
like white purple could just give it a
color background then we give this more
of a K lighter color so I've been
playing with this for a little bit and I
actually did a couple things so I added
a drop shadow to this I put a little a
little white banner here and I added a
drop shadow to it sort of like a little
black backing to it I added the text to
the Inkscape below I made the icon a
little bit larger and then obviously I
changed it to this sort of blue color
instead of the purple which I think I
like a lot better so now I think I like
this I haven't actually quite exported
it just yet in this version but I'm
gonna do an export real quick here and
I'll just take it to desktop again and
I'll call this our our our save export
so now I'll take a look at this one and
see what it looks like yeah that looks
pretty good to me I think that'll be
nice I'm not so sure I love that white
now around there but I think it'll be
small enough I don't think people really
notice
but you know what I am gonna take it out
I'm gonna take out this I have this sort
of white actually I'm just gonna what
I'm gonna do I'm gonna come here and
grab just the white part do I have the
white selected yeah and I'm just gonna
actually add a little bit of blur to it
that'll make it look better all right
very cool now so what I need to do is I
need to create a bunch of these so I'm
gonna come over here and delete this so
it's not taking up any space this is my
original Alderley that I'm going to take
and delete this purple one too so now
this is the final one that I want to use
and so everything I really want to do
with this I shouldn't bring it over here
so if I come up here I'm actually gonna
want to copy this a bunch of times so
I'm gonna take this floor and Foundation
and I'll just erase the text and type in
the letter A and then on lesson I can
keep it lesson two it doesn't really
matter then we just go ctrl D and I'll
just move it down here ctrl D so I need
like a bunch of these ctrl D because
what I really need is how many of them
let's come over here and look I really
need 20 okay so I have I have a couple
here and so let's come and just go it'll
take all these ones is five so that I
duplicate this row and now there's 10
and then duplicate it again and now
there's going to be 20 that's awesome
before I get any further I'm gonna save
this file save as I'll save it under my
documents if I can and I'll call it ink
escape tutorial thumbnails that way if I
ever add a few a video in the future
like the one I'm making now is video 21
I can add it in there as well
and I'm just come here to the very very
first top one and I'm just gonna rename
this so I'm going to call this one
lesson 1 and take this text and erase
the a and type in basic drawing and
that's it and that is that thumbnail so
now I can export this and upload it and
replace
it in here so I'll just show you just a
quick video here I've renamed all of
them so I have all these different
thumbnails now and I'm just exporting
them so this is number nine export I
think I redid that one so replace and
then I've got ten I just select it call
it ten and then hit export so it's
actually very quick I have a workflow
once I get all these going it just takes
the selection which is that box so it
doesn't get anything on the outside of
that box
I just rename it to what I want to be
called and hit export so this one's
twelve I click on it make sure it says
twelve and hit export and then it's
putting all of these on my desktop here
and I can just go through and see open
up if I want and look through and see
what they look like and they're nice and
then once I'm done exporting them all
I'll upload them to YouTube so that's it
