welcome to this tutorial teaching how to
create and use guides in Inkscape I had
a request from John Kelly about a week
ago asking if I could create this video
so this video is for you John if you
come up here to the very top we have a
ruler bar and on the left hand side
there's a ruler also when we're up there
we see a little triangle up here we can
left-click and just hold and drag and
this actually creates some guides and we
can create as many as we want and guides
are useful because once they're drawn in
here we can actually we can draw an
object and the object will snap to the
guides if we have snapping enabled so we
see a little X appears and now it's
snapped to that corner we can snap down
to this corner if we want to snap just
to the side here it also snapped like a
handle point but we can have it snap
right to any point of this line and
again that's because snapping is enabled
if we turn snapping off over here then
it won't snap to it at all and it's nice
because by default we don't snap right
to the page so if we want to snap to
like the corner of our page it won't do
it we could turn on page snapping that
icons right here snap to page border so
then we could snap to the page but it's
nice to be able to create our own guides
because sometimes like we can come here
and adjust the guides once they're drawn
to by just left clicking you want to
create like a margin inside the page so
you could do you can you don't do that
also what we could do is if we double
click on the actual guide we can delete
it we can move it so this one's on the
along the x-axis I mean it runs on the
y-axis but it's on the X so if we change
the X here to like 66 and go okay it'll
move the location of this so we can move
the guides that way and if we're
sometimes the guides get in the way so
down here if we're like trying to click
on we want to select the the object that
we actually select the guide we can lock
the guides by coming to the left corner
here it's a teeny tiny lock and if we
click that it makes it so we won't
accidentally select these guides on
accident and like accidentally move them
whereas if it's unlocked we might try to
move the the object and it might
accidentally move the guidance did
we can toggle if we view the guides
under view we can go to guides and just
select so they're not there so they're
they're still there they're just
invisible well actually they're
invisible and they're not active so if
we turn the guides off the object will
no longer try to snap to the guides so
if we want to turn them off and the
guides by default in fact I'm not even
sure if we can export the guides but
when we export our final our final file
like an image or something the guides
will not be visible they're only for for
use for us you know creating something
one more thing I want to show so if we
delete everything here we'll just double
click and delete these guides we can
automatically create guides around our
page to do that we go to edit and go
down to create guides around page and
that creates some nice guides for us
just around our page and that'll be
whatever our page is so if we if we had
a different page under document
properties we had like a 1920 by 1080 we
can create guides around that okay I
want to show you a useful application of
this I'm going to minimize oh and I have
another one opened up right here so this
is like for example the thumbnails that
I use in my for my video so I'll just
change I'll come in here I actually
don't use guides a lot because I use an
actual template file this is like my
template so I'll change this to say like
you know less than 25 and then this will
be like using guides or whatever I'll
just come in here and edit and if I'm
doing a different program I'll edit the
name of the program here and I always
have this TJ free banner but I could
convert this into a guide like I could I
could work off of guides instead so I'll
show you how to do that how to convert
this so for example we can come over
here and click this well we could just
come and drag the guides like I showed I
guess is the easiest way we can drag the
guides in just like this from all the
different sides and do it this way but
there's an easier way to do it and to
get more exact so let's delete these
because what we can do is we can
actually just create a guide out of this
object and to do that we just go to
object it's shift G and objects to guide
and what that'll do is it'll convert
that object into
guides were deleted the border of my of
my object and turned it into a guide but
what it actually did this is a little
bit misleading because now I don't have
my my board or my outline and so I
actually don't want to do that all hit
ctrl Z because what I really want to do
like watch this do ctrl D to duplicate
so now I have a separate border I'm
gonna do that same thing again cuz I
want to show you what's happening under
object we go to object to guides the
shortcut is Shift G by the way to do
that so you see what happened it
actually created the guide in the center
of the stroke of this square which I
don't really want of this rectangle
object so to prevent that I'm going to
hit control Z now to get rid of that
again to prevent that we just need to go
to convert this object into a path so we
go path while it's selected and go
object to path well before I do that let
me just double click and show you this
is an object now so I can round the
corners but I can't move the nodes if I
move it it just scales the actual
rectangle it behaves like an object so
while it's selected if I go object to
path now it's converted to a path so now
if we double click on it yeah we see
these different nodes so now we actually
can change it but we can't round the
corners but we can adjust the different
nodes and change it as we would a path
so control Z ctrl Z to undo those hope
I'm not losing you here because what
this lets us do now is go shift g object
to guides and now if I had the wrong one
selected so now when this is selected it
should do it differently object to
guides why is it's not working for me oh
I'm sorry I need to go stroke to path so
now we do stroke to path and so that
does a little bit differently so stroke
to path gives us a little bit more guy a
little bit more nodes in here we can
delete a few of these so it's not so
messy
but then once we have the stroke because
I had I had done just the object so
let's do the stroke and then we go down
to object to guides and now we get these
nice guides for our border as well so
then we can come in here and just delete
this and we have some good guides
going on here so then we can adjust this
and we'll snap this background to the
guides and then we can come in and
change this color anytime we want to
create a new type of background we can
take the image here and we can convert
it to a guide as well we just go to
object objects to guides so that's the
space where our image would be and even
this thing right here which i think is
group I know it's not grouped right now
so we can just take this and go object
object to guides so now we have some
nice guides here we can work with for
creating a nice thumbnail for a video
and so we can come in put a background
picture in there change the color add a
gradient and just change the text like
this and so it when we want to we can
bring when we actually go to draw in
something like this it's not just
changing the turn alpha so we can
actually snap to these corners here very
quickly so this would be good for doing
like a business card or YouTube
thumbnail like this where you do the
same thing over and over again but it's
different that's the same template but
it's a different you know you have
different artwork or different colors or
different text going into it I was gonna
show an example too I have these cards
over here that I got from Wikimedia but
you could do the same thing with this if
you have a card template you wanna make
fifty fifty two so how many cards are in
a deck you could do the same thing so
you just create guides and you say
alright the number should sit on this
line and the you know the sides of the
sides of the courage to be right here
and you can you can do it either way you
can convert the object to an actual an
actual guide itself or you can just drag
and drop them in here oh I forgot to say
one of the most important things you can
come to the corner and you can create a
diagonal guide so you should come up
here and you can do it diagonally as
well and then you can also change the
angle of it for example we can say we
want this to be a thirty degree angle
instead of a forty-five
we can change it relative so we can say
compared to what this is right now let's
rotate it let's rotate it
90 degrees now rotate it here so this is
that one now anyway hopefully I think
that's a good enough yeah this should
get you started at least playing with
different guides and then we can always
grabs all these angle ones we can grab
like this Bezier curve right here and we
can actually snap to in here so we can
snap in and that's how we can fill in I
hit enter and now we have like a nice
something drawn right in there hopefully
found this video informative hope that
helps and go ahead and don't forget to
Like comment subscribe if you have any
questions leave them below and I'll
catch you in the next video
Inkscape Tutorials