welcome back to another Inkscape
tutorial in this video we're going to be
using the Bezier tool so we learned in
the previous video about drawing with a
freehand tool we learned about
converting our objects into paths so we
go object to path and then we knew we
know we can change these individual
nodes so if you're a little bit hazy on
that or if you missed those videos you
might want to watch those first before
learning about the Bezier tool because
what the Bezier tool does is it draws
based on these different nodes and these
handles that control the arc or the
curve of a lion so I'm gonna zoom out
here we'll just delete these things real
quick and let's get started with our
Bezier tool
so the Bezier tool is here we'll click
on it if you've never used it before
you'll be in the default mode if you
have played with a little bit make sure
you're in the create regular Bezier path
and then we'll just click so we can
click a point here and then come over
click another point and hit enter and
we've created a line we can give it a
little thicker stroke by coming down
here and right-clicking and going to
will give it like 4 so it's sort of like
a fat line and we can change the color
of it by holding down the shift key and
clicking on any color so we'll make this
a purple line I guess and if we come
here click on this tool so we can edit
the different nodes of this path so what
the Bezier tool is done is just drawn a
path for us from point A to point B it's
just drawing a line based on the rules
that we've told it and all we told that
to do was do a straight line but we
could have it be a curved line and a
curve there's a couple different ways we
can come to the node if we left click
and drag it'll move the node around but
if we hold down the shift key and then
drag it'll bring out this little handle
and then this handle we can use too if
we move the angle of it if we rotate it
around it'll kind of change the
curvature of this arc coming out of this
node and if we change the distance of it
the further away it is the stronger that
art kind of goes so if we're not very
subtle we have it below if you want to
be like a check sign like a Nike sign or
something we have it come
here and then we do the same thing with
this when we go to this node hold down
the shift key and we can drag out this
thing and we can make sort of like a
wave where we want to make it a check we
make it really long here but just keep
it horizontal or we can rotate it down
and make like a nice curved arc shape so
that's kind of how we do that also if we
don't want it once these handles are out
we want to hold the shift key anymore we
can just play with the handle also we
can just click on the line at any point
we want click and hold and we can move
the line around that way at any point so
if we click up here it'll kind of move
just this point here if we click in the
middle here it'll move that point and
it'll move both of these handles
accordingly so that's kind of a good way
that I like to do is just by dragging
clicking the line but it's again we only
have two points one point here one point
here we can add another point by just
double clicking so if we double click
right now we've added another point and
now we have a third point here and it
also has these different handles these
things are tied together so we can
create like a little loop here we can
have it be straight we can create sort
like a sine wave if you want to move
this like right here we can have this
one be up and then have this will be
down and then kind of make that not so
extreme so that's one thing that we can
do just sort of playing around getting
used to this I'm gonna go ahead and
delete this we can also go back to our
Bezier tool and we can just left-click
and then for our second left click we
can left-click and hold and move our
mouse and we can create an arc that way
so now we can create these arcs as we go
now let's press the Enter key so now
we've created these arcs just as we were
drying without having to draw straight
lines and then Bend them individually we
can still go in and edit each of these
we can move the nodes around we can play
with these different handles and change
the angles of these arcs or we can just
click on any any one line and change the
arc for it all right do do also if we
just had a straight line let's go back
to our Bezier tool again let's create
another straight line and hit enter we
can just go
to our edit this tool to edit the notes
and we can click and just create an arc
that way without having to pull out
those handles every time I'm gonna
delete these so we click delete left
click delete Oh actually we can delete
them let me control Z as my show you can
delete individual nodes too so while
this is selected we double click we can
get into the node edit or we can click
on it here and then left click but we
can delete a node if I want delete this
last one I just click it hit the Delete
key and that node goes away we can
select multiple notes at the same time
by left clicking and do creating a
selection box let's click and drag now
we have these two nodes selected we can
move them together independent of the
rest of the path and we can hit the
Delete key and delete them also so I'm
going to select all these nodes delete
all of them what I guess I can't delete
all of them yeah delete all but one but
if you want to leave the whole thing we
can just select it as like as yeah so
it's all together into the Delete key
and I'll delete that way let's go back
to our let's go back to draw so if we
want to draw a shape we don't have to
just draw a line we can actually draw a
shape we can complete so we can create a
little arc here create some straight
lines if we want to and then if we go
back to our starting node it'll
automatically complete our shape and
it'll fill it in without to press ENTER
to close it or anything it'll just
complete automatically and now we can
take this and we can edit the notes
again just like we did before but we can
come here select it and we can give it a
fill color so we can fill it with a
certain color and we can change the
stroke color too so we can make we can
give it a no fill color and if we hold
the shift key we can make the stroke a
different color so that's a blue kind of
hard to see we can make it a little
thicker so we can see it so we have a
nice blue outline there and if we one
thing that you might actually
accidentally do so if we go to our
Bezier tool and we just click here and
draw like sort of a line and hit enter
and close it off if you want to change
the color of this line naturally a lot
of times you'll just come down here and
want to select the color so if we left
click red it's gonna actually do its
best to
to do what it thinks we're trying to
tell it to do which is give it a fill
color of red but we're trying to apply a
fill color to a line and not a shape not
a closed shape so it basically draws an
imaginary line from the last point to
the first point and then fills in
anything it possibly can so usually you
won't want to apply a fill color to a
line you always want to change the
stroke color so these paths that we draw
by default it's a it is a stroke so to
change the color we hold down shift and
then we can make it red will change the
thickness of it so we can just see it a
little more dramatically so that's how
you would do that
another option under the Bezier tool if
we just click them delete these I'll go
to selection
left click delete left click delete we
can go back to our bezzie a and up under
mode if we go to this one which is spiro
create spyro path let's click now if we
just click when I'm to click and drag we
just click a couple points and it
automatically creates this kind of cool
little we don't do a spiral necessarily
we can come out here so you can create
some needs kind of floral designs hit
enter and we've got this design here
which is pretty cool and we can get we
can go in and edit the different nodes
of this so every point where I clicked
we can edit these and I just creates a
much more fluid based off of some sort
of like fractal math or something and it
creates these nice spirals that we can
then edit and yeah change so this might
be nice
might be you might be able to think of
something that you can use this for and
it gets really nice when we start to
change the shape so we can also go
another setting under the busy a is this
shape so I'll go back to the regular
mode and under shape if we go like
triangle in for example and if we just
create a nice simple line here we can
give it some character hit the enter key
and then you see that I'll kind of
create it fades off if we zoom in here
the last part is just sort of faded out
it's very thin and it's kind of more
thick over here we actually changed the
setting
this this is actually not super pretty
but if we go to path we go to path
effects we can change this to maybe this
one here will look too big but this
gives it more of like a dramatic look we
can also go back and doing this spyro
spyro if we check the spyro and go to
ellipse this creates kind of a nice
flourish so we can just do a couple
points here hit the enter key and then
we see it starts nice and thin here and
we can edit these nodes again however we
want to but it starts nice and thin and
then it goes and we can here we can
change the width of this particular one
with the ellipse so we can change and
make it kind of really thick and so you
can create some really nice flourishes
that way sometimes people will download
like clipart and they'll want to do you
know they'll find a specific flourish
but this way you can create your very
own we can change the colors of it and
you know make it pretty awesome that's a
couple cool things that you can do using
the Bezier tool go ahead and play with
it to get familiar with how it works
next video maybe we'll use the Bezier
tool to do some tracing or at least in
one of the future videos so stay tuned
for that go ahead and comment below ask
questions get involved in the discussion
and we'll see you on the next video
