welcome back to another Inkscape
tutorial in this video we're going to
quickly be showing the bezzie a tool to
trace a physical object an object in
like an actual real picture and we'll
trace that to create some vector art of
that object so I'm going to do a more
complex object I'm going to do this
picture that I found on pixabay if we
just go to pixabay.com I can show you
how I found this pixabay is a great site
for finding free photos that you can use
for both sometimes commercial and
obviously personal purposes we'll just
type in person and we can scroll down
here and I've chose this picture of this
guy falling so this is shared with us by
the user pixels and it's under Creative
Commons 0 license free for commercial
use no attribution required so we'll go
ahead and download this I already have
it downloaded go ahead and download the
nineteen twenty by twelve sixty click
download here and then it'll appear in
your downloads folder so that's this
picture here called action it's just a
guy kind of following and what we're
gonna do I want to bring this in so I'll
go back to my downloads and I want to
actually drag this into Inkscape so
we'll left-click and drag it into
Inkscape we'll leave all these settings
the same this just says we're going to
embed the image so it's part of our
project file rather than linking it
externally if we link it and then we go
back and delete that file out of our
downloads then it won't show up here and
in that you scape which is probably fine
since we're just tracing it anyway but
I'll just leave it here so one bed and
then we'll leave everything else the
same so now we have this picture and
actually there's a I think there might
be a faster way to do what I'm about to
show you I know there is actually but
I'm just gonna show you for using the
Bezier tool it's a really good practice
for learning how that Tool Works so I
wanted to scale this up but I forgot to
do one thing right now
it's it'll skew it if I scale it unless
I'm really really accurate so I'll hit
ctrl C or I could hold the ctrl key
while I scale and then it stays uniform
but what I'd like to do is click this
lock at the top and what it does if you
hover over it it says it makes it so
height and width scale the same whether
you're holding the ctrl key or not and
just helps when you're working with
photos and when you're working with text
I always like to have that checked
well you don't accidentally secure
something without realizing it okay so
we have this picture and then we're just
gonna go to our desi a tool make sure if
you are playing with this playing along
with the last videos you might have this
on the lips or something make sure your
shape is to none and make sure your mode
is set to regular and then we're going
to hit the plus key I'll use my control
wheel to kind of pan around hit the plus
key and we're going to start right at
the tip of this boot and what we're
doing is I want to create an outline so
we're gonna draw just the outline and
I'm not gonna you could come down here
and click and hold and then create like
that nice rounded toe and maybe that'd
be an OK thing and then this one comes
here and we can round that in a little
bit I'm not gonna do too much of that
I'm just gonna be clicking and create
kind of a little bit more jagged but
we're so zoomed in it's not you're not
really gonna notice and I'll pause the
video here in a second and speed up so
we don't have to watch this whole
process but essentially I'm just left
clicking creating some nodes every time
that there's enough contour in this
image and we're going to create a nice
outline like a black shadow outline of
this like a silhouette of a person
falling and we could use it in like a
logo or we could use this silhouette for
I don't know some print art or different
kinds of things that we want to do so
I'll pause now too but just kind of
follow along and do the same thing I'll
pause the video and speed it up and I'll
get back with you when I'm completed
with this silhouette shape
[Music]
okay I'm just about completing the last
part of the heel of the shoe here and
don't worry if you mess up I'm gonna
mess up intentionally right here like if
you accidentally click in there or like
out here don't worry about it because we
can fix that afterwards I'm just gonna
complete my shape and click my very
first point that I started with and then
we have this nice outline and so your
stroke might not be that large but if we
zoom out here we can see it's a it's
created an outline stroke of this whole
person here so right now our fill is
transparent and our stroke is completely
black but if we hit black we can turn
our fill to black and we can come down
to our stroke we can hold down shift and
hit none go to the transparent so now we
have no stroke and we have just a black
fill let's see that for it's kind of a
cool we have a nice silhouette and then
we can go in and fix any parts we messed
up on by just going to the node edit
tool zoom in and we can replace these
nodes about where they should be we can
hit the Delete key and delete a node if
we think we have too many there we can
grab some of these handles if there's a
rounded part like we did here and we can
adjust the way that this boot fits a
little bit when I make it a little more
big in the toe we can actually make it
bigger than it really is if we want to
we can we don't have to follow the
outline exactly so we can check through
and see but you know I went I went
through pretty jagged this is like part
of the shirt that I've brought in it's
not really a mistake but we can bring it
in if we want to if we don't like the
way that looks we can kind of bring that
in a little bit I don't like the way
that looks at all anyway when we zoom
out and so what we can do is we can grab
this now and we can move it around so
now we have this actual shape and then
we can take left-click and we can then
delete our original hit the Delete key
and then we're left with just this
silhouette and we can change the color
of it any cover we want we can have it
be we can give it a separate stroke if
we hold down the shift key we can give
it a like a blue stroke and have it be
yellow
I'll hit ctrl zieks I don't really like
that blue stroke we can
Espie blue and then we can yeah we can
do anything that we could do with any
other path so we can resize it we can
click again we can rotate it if we want
to have it be little bit different so
it's just a really cool thing we can
apply a gradient under the gradient tool
here we can just draw in a gradient
maybe we can let on to be kind of like
that so it like goes fades into alpha
and then we can put some text on here
and we can grab like a you know a
different color background or something
and very quickly we can create a nice
cool little effect and the best part is
it's all vector image so I'll hit
control Z ctrl Z ctrl Z when I have a
source like this sometimes I want to
duplicate it so I'll hit ctrl D and I'll
keep my original here and that way if I
make any changes to this one and ever I
want to get back I can just grab my
original one change you you could make
for example we can go to path and go to
simplify now just reduce the amount of
nodes we have and kind of smooth things
out that doesn't look super great now
see there's not as much detail in the
head anymore
it's Liston's it's still I think it
looks more realistic so I'll delete this
one so we can hit control D on our
keyboard again and get another version
here and actually it's a lot of times
I'll do that so if we take this I'm
getting kind of carried away now but if
we go ctrl D and then make this one
black and push the down arrow key a
couple times and the over arrow key now
we have like an outline so that blue
outline behind and then we can send this
black one to the very back and then we
kind of have a blue with a black outline
is kind of cool or sometimes if I'll
draw like a nice background like this
and I'll select the black if I can I'll
hit what's it alt
alt click because I'm clicking back now
because this gray was on top of it and
we can turn that to white we can't see
it ctrl Z ctrl Z let's take our shift
let's take this and sync it all the way
back to the back and then let's grab
just this black one and let's make it
white and then I'll go to object we'll
go to or we go to path no good object
yeah fill and Stroke properties and go
make bring up the blur so we have like a
blurred out version of it in the back
it's like a full black turn the opacity
all the way up to black so yeah then we
have that's pretty cool right so we have
a kind of a cool thing I'm trying to
zoom in here yeah like this little bit
darker or a darker blue so that's some
pretty cool things that you can do with
the with the Bezier tool you can trace
any object take a picture of it bring it
in here or find a picture online you can
trace it and you can do some pretty cool
stuff with it like this so I hope you
enjoyed this video hopefully this kind
of kind of spurred on some inspiration
you can see maybe of some different
things you can do with this we'll use
this a little bit later on too in other
videos but that's an example of using
the Bezier tool to trace objects in a
real image thanks for watching we'll
catch you on the next one
[Music]
