welcome back to another Inkscape
tutorial in this video we're going to be
using the spray tool to create multiple
objects and copies of objects on the
screen without having to draw each one
individually so we're gonna be drawing a
starry night scene yes I'll show how
we'll do that first of all let's just
play with this spray tool for a second
and show you what it does if we just
click on it first on a blank canvas it
does nothing because what this actually
does is copy an object so if we draw a
circle we have a black circle like this
and then while it's selected we select
the spray tool now this is the object
that we're going to be spraying and by
default your settings might look a
little more I've changed some of these
settings a little bit but by default it
kind of looks like this when you spray
so what this did was actually drew a
whole bunch of of copies of this and I
have my scale turned on so they're all a
little bit different sizes but you can
make them spray the same copy let's grab
a better example might be let's do like
let's do something with a border so we
have red with a blue border and if we
spray this it look like this so we've
sprayed oh I have my rotation on to
which isn't on by default so these are
all rotated to do so that's what the
spray does it just sprays a bunch of
copies but every one of these is its own
object that we can move and manipulate
separately alright I mean it controls
you a whole bunch of times you get rid
of all of this and let's do us so what
we can do is if we do a star for example
we can actually make like a starry night
scene so we'll draw a really cool
looking star and then we'll just spray
it to create a starry night scene but to
do that we're gonna change some of the
settings one of the settings we want to
do is come up here and click on prevent
overlapping objects if I hit control Z
now the stars won't overlap with each
other so that's kind of that's a lot
better and then also we can change like
the rotation if your rotation is set to
zero then they'll just all they won't be
rotated they'll all be like this and if
your
if your scale is set to zero then
they'll all just be the same size which
for certain things you might want to do
that if you're doing like an American
flag maybe you should want to do that
too and then you can go in and like
reposition these in fact we could use a
line and distribute like we learned in
the last video to light them up I
control Z a couple times but we're going
to be doing a starry night scene so
we're gonna left click here we'll just
cover a rectangle on our whole page and
then we'll turn it black and I'll get
rid of this stroke by just holding down
the shift key and going to this little X
in the corner to say no stroke all right
then we'll take this star and we'll just
use this one it's on a lower level so we
have to push the page up key to get it
to go up and let's turn it maybe we'll
turn it
let's do white we'll just do white star
and then we'll also turn off the stroke
for it so hold down the shift key and
click here on the no what's this called
none all right and then we will let's
scale this a little bit so I'm gonna
hold down the control key and scale it
uniformly down to about that size
perfect and now this while this is
selected I'll click on my spray tool and
let's take the rotation up - it doesn't
really anywhere above 50% will be good
for us and our scale this just shows the
that how large it will be so if we do
this a hundred percent we'll have some
pretty large stars and some pretty tiny
ones so we'll scale maybe two we want
them roughly to be about that size so
I'll Scout to about 51% let's just try
this and see how it looks awesome this
is maybe too many stars and what we can
do then we can select like well we want
sort of everything so we go select all
of it then we hold down the shift key
and deselect the background if we can
there we go its let's deselect it now
because you can see this it's not
doesn't have a white dotted line around
it if I hold down the shift key and
select it now the background selected if
I deselect it it's not
and then we can apply changes to all
these stars at once
in fact let's group them ctrl G now
they're all grouped and now we can
change the color if we wanted to have
all of them together we could maybe go
in and what I was thinking about maybe
doing was going in to fill and Stroke on
this object fill and Stroke and then we
could I don't know what we can do with
them we can change we can try and do
like see what it looks like if we blur
them a little bit and then maybe we
could apply I don't change your color
just a little bit a little bit just like
the yellow yeah so anyway I then I
didn't have a real direction for
something to produce so by the end of
this video but I wanted to demonstrate
using the spray tool so that's one thing
you can use the spray tool for and again
you can also also you can draw its
whatever selected so if we went and got
grabbed our Bezier tool or even yeah if
we grab our Bezier tool and create a
little something we can spray this now
and so we can grab our spray tool with
this selected if we turn our rotation
down to zero our scale to zero so it
won't rotate and scale when we're drying
it and then we turn our oh and scatter
down to 0-2 that'll keep it keep it
always in the same place and then if we
say let it overlap order I think I'll
and then we'll just spray that so then
we're getting like this we're spraying
this object that we did or every time we
click it a loss of your spray once yeah
that's how the spray Tool Works in
Inkscape appreciate you watching catch
you on the next video
