 welcome back to another Inkscape
tutorial in this video I'll show you how
to install a custom extension to
Inkscape the extension I'm gonna be
installing is here on github it's this
counter Sheetz extension and what it
lets you do is create card games on my
tabletop board games it's just a really
great extension to Inkscape and so this
is written and developed by paila
Nelson I think that's how you say it and
so huge shout out to him for doing this
that's kind of the beauty of open source
right is that anyone can write
extensions so if you have a niche you
want to use Inkscape to do some kind of
a crazy thing that it can't do yet you
can actually write your own extension
and then have that added functionality
so I'll show us how I'll show you how to
get that in here when we're done with
this video we'll have a new option
between a range and color called board
games that we can go to to create cards
and things very quickly with a nice
printable sheet of cards so once you
have that installed you can go ahead and
watch the next video where I will
actually demonstrate how to use this
extension but in this video it's just
kind of a boring one just how to install
the extension okay so the first thing we
need to do is download it so we'll go
here to this github page and we'll just
click on this green download button and
go to download zip and so we'll download
this and then that's a zipped file so we
can navigate to it it's in my downloads
folder and actually have it already
extracted but if you don't have it
extracted yet it's called counter sheet
extension - master and you just go to
right click on it and then go to I'm
using 7-zip but you can just go to
extract here or to go to 7-zip extract
here I already have it extracted so I've
already done that but essentially we
need to extract it so it's not all
compressed and so that we can get to the
files individually and then this is what
the files will look like so I'm gonna
open this up so the only files we really
need from here are this counter sheet
INX
and this counter sheet dot pi py that's
a Python file so this is a this is
written in for Python which is what I
guess maybe I'll escape extensions are
written in that so to find out where to
put it and to find out which files when
actually we can just go back here to the
github where we downloaded it from and
it'll tell us on installation it says
copy counter sheet PI and counter sheet
INX to where Inkscape looks for
extensions on mac and linux it's going
to be in the dot config slash Inkscape
slash extension and on windows which is
what i'm using is going to be in Program
Files
Inkscape share extensions so we're gonna
go to see my local disk C and then go to
Program Files not the Program Files x86
actually I guess it depends on what
installation you're using but one of
those two will have an Inkscape
directory so go to Inkscape and then go
to share and then go to extensions so
here's all the extensions we have
already so if we notice of these
correlate with these extensions here we
have like a range and color and some
different things well those are going to
be the same things that we find
corresponding in our extension we have
this color brighter you know color
darker color a grayscale and so we just
need to add in we need to pull up this
these extensions that we just downloaded
or this extension that we downloaded and
move it to here so here's the ones we
downloaded we're going to left click and
highlight both of these right click and
go to copy or we could just drag and
drop actually left click and drag drag
them over to here and then it'll come up
and say you need administrator
permissions to do this just click
continue it should ask us twice for one
for each file and now they are here
essentially its installed we need to
close out of Inkscape and then open it
up again
and then we will have a new option so
this is open we go to our extensions and
now we have boardgames here create
counter sheet which was not here before
so we just added a custom extension when
we go to this it had bring up some
options for it and so I will show you
how to do this in the next video well
first of all I'll show you how to get
all set up though so what we're gonna
want to do is take the rest of these
that we can close out of this one now
where we installed that where our
extensions are but the thing that we
downloaded if we go back to our
downloads and go to this counter sheets
that we move the two files out but then
there's also some examples and some
templates so I'm going to keep those I'm
going to create a new folder on my
desktop and I'm gonna call it game
I'm gonna call it something very simple
and you should too and then I'm gonna
drag and drop the templates into there
I'm gonna drag and drop the examples
into there and the rest of these things
we can just leave so now when I go into
game I have the examples and the
templates directories which have a bunch
of some Inkscape folders and some like
some spreadsheets things that we can
open up in like libera office couch
