welcome back to another Inkscape
tutorial in this video I'm creating a 2d
character that will be used in a 2d
animation so first I'm just drawing all
these circles they're just objects then
I select everything and I go to path
object to path I think ctrl shift C is
also the shortcut to do that what that
does is it converts all of these objects
into a path that has different nodes so
I can shape them like I'm doing here
this video is sped up if you can't tell
this is like six or eight hundred speed
I think and so and this is really just
one way to do it you could draw shapes
you could draw squares you could draw
anything really you could even be like a
freehand drawing and then just
manipulate each one of these nodes I'd
draw an object first like a circle and
get sort of my rough frame of my
character and then and then go through
and resize and reshape everything I made
parts of it gray and parts of it black
to show so I can see the overlapping how
different body parts overlap with each
other and so I'm going to be bringing
this into open tombs and I'm going to be
applying like a skeleton rig to it and
so I want to be able to control
different parts of these with a
different connection points that's why
we have like the neck here sort of like
a paper doll type animation and even
everything on the face is gonna be
animated too so i'm gonna export all of
these separately the eyes the eyeballs
the mouth the eyelid eyelashes I think
I'm gonna leave the hair I think I chose
to leave the hair and the nose as as
just part of the head and the neck to
actually connected to the head but
everything else got I export separately
and I'll show you it at the end here for
the hair I just drew I just drew in
everything just by clicking on the nodes
and then I went in and shaped it
individually and I played a lot with
color too so I like to throw on a
background other than white I just kind
of play around with the color I wasn't
really sure where I was going with the
colors and and I kind of played with it
quite a bit oh this part here so I drew
in a belt but I also used it to divide
the upper and lower half of the body
since it was all one
color.all one path so I split that up to
split up a path like this it's underpass
division is what I used these hands gave
me a real problem I spent a ton of time
trying to get him to look good night at
one point in time I was I thought about
doing a mitten like this and I went away
from that idea as well I guess I said
before I'm not really I don't have any
formal training in art and so I don't
really I'm not super great at art
creation but do the best I can
I thought I'd throw a little star on the
shirt here to give it some more
character and I changed the color of the
belt here changing color of the shoes
that's one of the nice things about
Inkscape is it's really easy to get in
and change colors and and do things
after the fact so I grouped all the skin
together and then changed it all at at
the same time same with the shirt it's
all grouped a lot of these different
things are grouped so I can change the
color of the group instead of each
individual item put a little belt buckle
on here for some character yeah that's
about it these characters coming
together the next thing I need to do is
separate out different items so what I
do I make it copy so I have a duplicate
copy of the whole character and I just
separate out each individual part that I
want to have so this is even though
there's different parts here I group
like the whole body section I just bring
out everything separately that I want to
to export out because in open toons or
in other software too I'm gonna want to
bring them in separately so I want to
bring in just a blank face without the
eyes and mouth and things on it because
those are gonna be some times they'll be
closed or sometimes they'll be in a
different position so I want everything
that's going to be a you know I can't
you kind of to think through and think
how what parts am I gonna want to
animate and what parts are gonna stay
the same all the time and so then I just
go to file export and I just grab like
the shoe the calf the thigh I just grab
all these different parts name them and
export them as a PNG image and yeah
that's what I'm doing here that's really
all there is to it and like I said every
every individual thing I probably do
need to draw I can either redraw the
mouth here or I can redraw or modify
different mouth positions in the
animation software up
I do that in the software itself but I
could have redrawn them here too that's
the whole process appreciate you
watching and don't forget to Like
comment subscribe and catch you in the
next video
